


        LESSON 1





THE GOOD READER


        朗读者

        1. It is told of Frederick the Great, King of Prussia, that, as he was seated one day in his private room, a written petition[1] was brought to him with the request that it should be immediately read. The King had just returned from hunting, and the glare of the sun, or some other cause, had so dazzled his eyes that he found it difficult to make out a single word of the writing.

        2. His private secretary happened to be absent; and the soldier who brought the petition could not read. There was a page, or favorite boy servant, waiting in the hall, and upon him the King called. The page was a son of one of the noblemen of the court, but proved to be a very poor reader.

        3. In the first place, he did not articulate[2] distinctly. He huddled his words together in the utterance, as if they were syllables of one long word, which he must get through with as speedily as possible. His pronunciation was bad, and he did not modulate[3] his voice so as to bring out the meaning of what he read. Every sentence was uttered with a dismal monotony[4] of voice, as if it did not differ in any respect from that which preceded it.

        4. “Stop!” said the King, impatiently. “Is it an auctioneer’s list of goods to be sold that you are hurrying over? Send your companion to me.” Another page who stood at the door now entered, and to him the King gave the petition. The second page began by hemming and clearing his throat in such an affected[5] manner that the King jokingly asked him whether he had not slept in the public garden, with the gate open, the night before.

        5. The second page had a good share of self-conceit, however, and so was not greatly confused by the King’s jest. He determined that he would avoid the mistake which his comrade had made. So he commenced reading the petition slowly and with great formality, emphasizing every word, and prolonging the articulation of every syllable. But his manner was so tedious that the King cried out, “Stop! are you reciting a lesson in the elementary sounds? Out of the room! But no: stay! Send me that little girl who is sitting there by the fountain.”

        6. The girl thus pointed out by the King was a daughter of one of the laborers employed by the royal gardener; and she had come to help her father weed the flower beds. It chanced that, like many of the poor people in Prussia, she had received a good education. She was somewhat alarmed when she found herself in the King’s presence, but took courage when the King told her that he only wanted her to read for him, as his eyes were weak.





              7. Now, Ernestine (for this was the name of the little girl) was fond of reading aloud, and often many of the neighbors would assemble at her father’s house to hear her; those who could not read themselves would come to her, also, with their letters from distant friends or children, and she thus formed the habit of reading various sorts of handwriting promptly and well.

        8. The King gave her the petition, and she rapidly glanced through the opening lines to get some idea of what it was about. As she read, her eyes began to glisten, and her breast to heave. “What is the matter?” asked the King; “don’t you know how to read?” “Oh, yes! sire,” she replied, addressing him with the title usually applied to him: “I will now read it, if you please.”

        9. The two pages wore about to leave the room. “Remain,” said the King. The little girl began to read the petition. It was from a poor widow, whose only son had been drafted[6] to serve in the army, although his health was delicate and his pursuits had been such as to unfit him for military life. His father had been killed in battle, and the son had a strong desire to become a portrait painter.



              10. The writer told her story in a simple, concise[7] manner, that carried to the heart a belief of its truth; and Ernestine read it with so much feeling, and with an articulation so just, in tones so pure and distinct, that when she had finished, the King, into whose eyes the tears had started, exclaimed, “Oh! now I understand what it is all about; but I might never have known, certainly I never should have felt, its meaning had I trusted to these young gentlemen, whom I now dismiss from my service for one year, advising them to occupy their time in learning to read.”

        11. “As for you, my young lady,” continued the King, “I know you will ask no better reward for your trouble than the pleasure of carrying to this poor widow my order for her son’s immediate discharge[8]. Let me see whether you can write as well as you can read. Take this pen, and write as I dictate[9].” He then dictated an order, which Ernestine wrote, and he signed. Calling one of his guards, he bade him go with the girl and see that the order was obeyed.

        12. How much happiness was Ernestine the means of bestowing through her good elocution, united to the happy circumstance that brought it to the knowledge of the King! First, there were her poor neighbors, to whom she could give instruction and entertainment. Then, there was the poor widow who sent the petition, and who not only regained her son, but received through Ernestine an order for him to paint the King’s likeness; so that the poor boy soon rose to great distinction[10], and had more orders than he could attend to. Words could not express[11] his gratitude, and that of his mother, to the little girl.

        13. And Ernestine had, moreover, the satisfaction of aiding her father to rise in the world, so that he became the King’s chief gardener. The King did not forget her, but had her well educated at his own expense. As for the two pages, she was indirectly the means of doing them good, also; for, ashamed of their bad reading, they commenced studying in earnest, till they overcame the faults that had offended the King. Both finally rose to distinction, one as a lawyer, and the other as a statesman; and they owed their advancement in life chiefly to their good elocution.





        NOTES.—Frederick II. of Prussia (b. 1712, d. 1788), or Frederick the Great, as he was called, was one of the greatest of German rulers. He was distinguished for his military exploits, for his wise and just government, and for his literary attainments. He wrote many able works in the French language. Many pleasant anecdotes are told of this king, of which the one given in the lesson is a fair sample.


【中文阅读】

        1．传说，一天，普鲁士国王弗里德里希大帝坐在屋里，他的卫兵给他送来一份书面请愿书。书中注明，请求国王即刻阅读。当时，国王刚刚结束打猎回宫，因为阳光刺眼，或某些其他原因，他头昏眼花，一个字也很难看清。



              2．国王的私人秘书碰巧不在宫内，送来请愿书的卫兵也不识字。当时有位男侍，或者不如说一位乖巧侍童正在大厅当班伺候，国王吩咐他过来。那位侍童是宫廷某位贵族的儿子，可随后证实，他的阅读能力相当糟糕。

        3．一上来，那位侍童发音就不够清晰，那些词语在他嘴里居然咕囔成串，杂乱无章地快速蹦出。听起来，有的词语音节应该很长，可他似乎总是急不可耐地含糊读完。他的发音很糟，无法表现文字的准确含义。与此同时，他所表述的所有话语无不沉闷呆板，毫无抑扬顿挫之感或音调变化，似乎词语间不存在任何差异。

        4．“停下！”国王不耐心地说，“莫非你是公开清单、急于拍卖物品的拍卖师，那么草草念完？把你的同伴叫来！”很快，大厅门口守候的另一位侍童来到国王身边，国王将请愿书交给了他。那侍童装模作样地清了清嗓子，国王诙谐地问他，是不是他昨晚没在公园里过夜，但睡觉时门却整晚没关。

        5．第二位侍童颇为自负，对国王的俏皮话，似乎不太在意。他有心避免前面那位同伴的类似失误，开始朗读起来。他的语速迟缓，太过一本正经，所有词语无不辅以重音，逐个音节拉长拼读，他的朗读那么乏味造作，国王不禁大声呵斥，“停下！你难道是小学生背诵课文？滚出去！不，站好！先把坐在喷泉那边的小姑娘给我叫过来！”

        6．国王点名的那位姑娘是宫廷花师所雇佣人的女儿，那天，她过来帮着父亲给宫廷花圃除草。像普鲁士不少穷人那样，她碰巧接受过良好的教育。听到国王召见自己，她多少有点心存警觉。国王告诉她，由于他眼睛无法阅读，只是让她代劳，她才稍稍鼓起了勇气。

        7．欧内斯廷（小姑娘名字）喜欢高声朗读，不少邻居经常聚集在她家门口听她读书。那些不识字的人亦总乐意找她，他们带来远方朋友或孩子的来信。因此，她便具有阅读不同手写文体、并能迅速准确朗读的能力。

        8．国王将请愿书递给她，她快速地浏览了开篇数行，从而获悉文章的大体印象。她读了不一会儿，眼神炯炯有光，呼吸急速。“怎么回事？”国王问道，“难道你不会读？”“不！陛下，”她以国王的尊称回答，“如果你乐意的话，我会继续。”

        9．两位侍童正准备离开，“站着，别动！”国王下令，姑娘又接着往下读。这份请愿书说的是一位贫苦寡妇的遭遇，她唯一的儿子被抓到军队服兵役，虽然他身虚体弱，志向亦不在行伍。男孩父亲已在一次战役中身亡，那少年还有个梦寐以求的愿望，想成为一名肖像画家。



              10．请愿书作者以质朴简洁的语言，叙述那位寡妇的悲惨遭遇，文章的真情实感让人动容。欧内斯廷满怀深情地读着，她的语言清晰，音调纯正，抑扬顿挫。读完后，国王眼里充满了泪水，他高声叫道：“天呀！我现在才知道怎么回事，假如听信那些年轻贵族的话，我将压根无从了解，准确地说，从来不会感受到这种请愿书的深刻涵义。现在，我要将那些家伙解职一年，让他们好好学习一下如何阅读。”

        11．“至于你，我的孩子，”国王接着说，“相信你会高兴地带上我的手令，立刻解除那可怜寡妇孩子的兵役，我想，假若给你其他任何报酬，亦不会比这更开心吧。我要看看，你是否也能准确书写，像你的阅读那样棒。拿这支笔，写下我口授的话。”他接着口授了一份命令，欧内斯廷记录完毕，国王随后签上自己名字。然后他又吩咐一个卫兵过来，安排他与姑娘一同前去执行他的命令。

        12．通过感情真挚的阅读，获取这种特殊赠与，欧内斯廷简直快乐极了！国王获悉了民情，内心产生共鸣，并最终授于树内。起初，那些贫困邻居们从姑娘那里找到安慰，随后，送出请愿书的那位寡妇不仅能与儿子重新一起生活，还接受了欧内斯廷带来的国王旨意，安排她的儿子前去宫廷为国王画像。不久，那位贫苦人家孩子便迅速得以擢升，并获得更多的发展机会。千言万语无法表达那位少年还有他的寡母对小姑娘欧内斯廷的深深感激之情。

        13．不仅如此，欧内斯廷的父亲后来成为国王的首席园艺师，在世界园林界赢得了声誉，这一点，让欧内斯廷非常自豪。国王并没有忘记这个小姑娘，花钱让她受到最好的教育。至于那两位侍童，她亦间接帮助了他们。由于对自己阅读能力深感羞愧，他们急切想重新获得学习机会。两人通过读书最终弥补了阅读能力的不足，随后皆获取了提升机会，一位做了律师，还有一位成了政治家，他们把生命升华归功于极有裨益的开卷阅读。





        LESSON 2





THE BLUEBELL


        风铃草

        1. There is a story I have heard—

        A poet learned it of a bird,

        And kept its music every word—





        2. A story of a dim ravine,

        O’er which the towering tree tops lean,

        With one blue rift[12] of sky between;





        3. And there, two thousand years ago,

        A little flower as white as snow

        Swayed[13] in the silence to and fro.





        4. Day after day, with longing eye,

        The floweret watched the narrow sky,

        And fleecy clouds that floated by.





        5. And through the darkness, night by night,

        One gleaming star would climb the height[14],

        And cheer the lonely floweret’s sight.

        6. Thus, watching the blue heavens afar,

        And the rising of its favorite star,

        A slow change came—but not to mar;





        7. For softly o’er its petals[15] white

        There crept a blueness, like the light

        Of skies upon a summer night;





        8. And in its chalice[16], I am told,



              The bonny[17] bell was formed to hold

        A tiny star that gleamed like gold.





        9. Now, little people, sweet and true,

        I find a lesson here for you

        Writ in the floweret’s hell of blue:





        10.The patient child whose watchful eye

        Strives after all things pure and high,

        Shall take their image by and by.


【中文阅读】

        1．我听说，一只鸟的故事，

        传说久远，诗人辗转获悉，

        他记下，鸟儿啁啾的过去；





        2．有座峡谷，幽深阴暗，

        一株树，高高的树梢弯曲，

        天空，挤出一丝蓝色缝隙；





        3．两千多年前，那处峡谷，

        开着朵小花，洁白妩媚，

        踏着内心脚步，曼妙起舞；





        4．年复一年， 摇曳着企盼，

        晶亮眼瞳，凝视狭仄天空，

        轻柔的云，悠然飘过头顶；





        5．流水的日子，黑暗无边，

        有颗星星，从蓝色缝隙闪入，

        鼓掌欢呼，遗世独立的坚守；





              6．于是，遥远天穹，

        升起一颗，笑脸星辰，

        哪怕改变微小，不会太糟；





        7．花瓣上方，悄然升起

        一抹亮丽，幽蓝夜空里，

        尽情伸展，夏季的深邃致意；





        8．小花，那捧白色圣杯，

        一柄漂亮的花蕊，从容举起，

        金色铃铛，星光四溢的魅力；





        9．可爱的孩子，关于真诚课程，

        一场动容相逢，竟是风铃草

        地狱里，写下的秘密；





        10．学会坚忍，学会敏锐观察，

        仰望那些，纯洁高贵的魂灵，

        耳濡目染，获取精神动力。





        LESSON 3





THE GENTLE HAND


        温柔的手

        Timothy S. Arthur (b. 1809, d. 1885) was born near Newburgh, N.Y., but passed most of his life at Baltimore and Philadelphia. His opportunities for good schooling were quite limited, and he may be considered a self-educated man. He was the author of more than a hundred volumes, principally novels of a domestic and moral tone, and of many shorter tales—magazine articles, etc. “Ten Nights in a Barroom,” and “Three Years in a Mantrap,” are among his best known works.





        1. When and where it matters not now to relate—but once upon a time, as I was passing through a thinly peopled district of country, night came down upon me almost unawares. Being on foot, I could not hope to gain the village toward which my steps were directed, until a late hour; and I therefore preferred seeking shelter and a night’s lodging at the first humble dwelling that presented itself.

        2. Dusky twilight was giving place to deeper shadows, when I found myself in the vicinity[18] of a dwelling, from the small uncurtained windows of which the light shone with a pleasant promise of good cheer and comfort. The house stood within an inclosure, and a short distance from the road along which I was moving with wearied feet.

        3. Turning aside, and passing through the ill-hung gate, I approached the dwelling. Slowly the gate swung on its wooden hinges, and the rattle of its latch, in closing, did not disturb the air until I had nearly reached the porch in front of the house, in which a slender girl, who had noticed my entrance, stood awaiting my arrival.

        4. A deep, quick bark answered, almost like an echo, the sound of the shutting gate, and, sudden as an apparition, the form of an immense dog loomed in the doorway. At the instant when he was about to spring, a light hand was laid upon his shaggy neck, and a low word spoken.

        5. “Go in, Tiger,” said the girl, not in a voice of authority, yet in her gentle tones was the consciousness that she would be obeyed; and, as she spoke, she lightly bore upon the animal with her hand, and he turned away and disappeared within the dwelling.

        6. “Who’s that?” A rough voice asked the question; and now a heavy-looking man took the dog’s place in the door.

        7. “How far is it to G—?” I asked, not deeming it best to say, in the beginning, that I sought a resting place for the night.

        8. “To G—!” growled the man, but not so harshly as at first. “It’s good six miles from here.”

        9. “A long distance; and I’m a stranger and on foot,” said I. “If you can make room for me until morning, I will be very thankful.”

        10. I saw the girl’s hand move quickly up his arm, until it rested on his shoulder, and now she leaned to him still closer.



              11. “Come in. We’ll try what can be done for you.” There was a change in the man’s voice that made me wonder. I entered a large room, in which blazed a brisk fire. Before the fire sat two stout lads, who turned upon me their heavy eyes, with no very welcome greeting. A middle-aged woman was standing at a table, and two children were amusing themselves with a kitten on the floor.

        12. “A stranger, mother,” said the man who had given me so rude a greeting at the door; “and he wants us to let him stay all night.”

        13. The woman looked at me doubtingly for a few moments, and then replied coldly, “We don’t keep a public house.”

        14. “I’m aware of that, ma’am,” said I; “but night has overtaken me, and it’s a long way yet to G—.”

        15. “Too far for a tired man to go on foot,” said the master of the house, kindly, “so it’s no use talking about it, mother; we must give him a bed.”

        16. So unobtrusively[19] that I scarce noticed the movement, the girl had drawn to her mother’s side. What she said to her I did not hear, for the brief words were uttered in a low voice; but I noticed, as she spoke, one small, fair hand rested on the woman’s hand.

        17. Was there magic in that touch? The woman’s repulsive[20] aspect changed into one of kindly welcome, and she said, “Yes, it’s a long way to G—. I guess we can find a place for him.”

        18. Many times more during that evening, did I observe the magic power of that hand and voice—the one gentle yet potent[21] as the other. On the next morning, breakfast being over, I was preparing to take my departure when my host[22] informed me that if I would wait for half an hour he would give me a ride in his wagon to G—, as business required him to go there. I was very well pleased to accept of the invitation.

        19. In due time, the farmer’s wagon was driven into the road before the house, and I was invited to get in. I noticed the horse as a rough-looking Canadian pony, with a certain air of stubborn endurance. As the farmer took his seat by my side, the family came to the door to see us off.

        20. “Dick!” said the farmer in a peremptory[23] voice, giving the rein a quick jerk as he spoke. But Dick moved not a step. “Dick! you vagabond! get up.” And the farmer’s whip cracked sharply by the pony’s ear.

        21. It availed[24] not, however, this second appeal. Dick stood firmly disobedient. Next the whip was brought down upon him with an impatient hand; but the pony only reared up a little. Fast and sharp the strokes were next dealt to the number of half a dozen. The man might as well have beaten the wagon, for all his end was gained.

        22. A stout lad now came out into the road, and, catching Dick by the bridle, jerked him forward, using, at the same time, the customary language on such occasions, but Dick met this new ally[25] with increased stubbornness, planting his fore feet more firmly and at a sharper angle with the ground.

        23. The impatient boy now struck the pony on the side of the head with his clinched hand, and jerked cruelly at his bridle. It availed nothing, however; Dick was not to be wrought upon by any such arguments.



              24. “Don’t do so, John!” I turned my head as the maiden’s sweet voice reached my ear. She was passing through the gate into the road, and in the next moment had taken hold of the lad and drawn him away from the animal. No strength was exerted in this; she took hold of his arm, and he obeyed her wish as readily as if he had no thought beyond her gratification.

        25. And now that soft hand was laid gently on the pony’s neck, and a single low word spoken. How instantly were the tense[26] muscles relaxed[27]—how quickly the stubborn air vanished!

        26. “Poor Dick!” said the maiden, as she stroked his neck lightly, or softly patted it with a childlike hand. “Now, go along, you provoking fellow!” she added, in a half-chiding[28], yet affectionate voice, as she drew up the bridle.

        27. The pony turned toward her, and rubbed his head against her arm for an instant or two; then, pricking up his ears, he started off at a light, cheerful trot, and went on his way as freely as if no silly crotchet[29] had ever entered his stubborn brain.

        28. “What a wonderful power that hand possesses!” said I, speaking to my companion, as we rode away.

        29. He looked at me for a moment, as if my remark had occasioned surprise. Then a light came into his countenance, and he said briefly, “She’s good! Everybody and everything loves her.”

        30. Was that, indeed, the secret of her power? Was the quality of her soul perceived in the impression of her hand, even by brute beasts! The father’s explanation was doubtless the true one. Yet have I ever since wondered, and still do wonder, at the potency which lay in that maiden’s magic touch. I have seen something of the same power, showing itself in the loving and the good, but never to the extent as instanced[30] in her, whom, for want of a better name, I must still call “Gentle Hand.”


【中文阅读】

        提摩太 · 斯 · 亚瑟(1809～1885)出生于纽约州纽博市附近，他在巴尔的摩和费城度过生命中的大量时光。他接受正规教育机会相当有限，属于自学成才的类型。他的著述多达一百多部，主要有涉及家庭伦理方面的小说，以及为杂志撰写的大量篇幅更短的文章等。《酒吧间的十个夜晚》和《捕人陷阱中的三年》皆为他的名篇。





        1．究竟什么时间、地点，现在看来似乎无关紧要——姑且算是从前吧，当我走过一处人烟稀少的地区，不知不觉间，夜幕降临了。由于步行，我不可能指望找到一处乡镇或村庄。又过了一个时辰，我急切地想找处地方过夜，没别的，最先撞见的地方，无论怎样粗鄙简陋，对付一晚足矣。



              2．昏暗灯火来自深不可测的黑暗，我突然发现附近有户人家，从那扇光秃秃的窗口里，似乎感觉到灯火里透出喜悦的安详。屋子四周有栅栏，离我走的路很近，那时，我可真是走得太累了。

        3．走下路，跨过那扇歪扭的大门，我走向那处屋子。大门在木质铰链上慢慢晃动，门闩的吱呀声悄无声息，直到最后关门才发出轻微声响。待我走到房前走廊时，才看到一位身材修长的姑娘站在那里，显然，刚才她听到了我的脚步。

        4．门甫关上，旋即响起一声低沉的狗吠，一条体型硕大的狗幽灵般出现在我的身边。就在它立马扑过来的刹那，一只手轻轻搭在那只狗毛发蓬松的脖颈。

        5．“虎子，进去，”姑娘低声说道，声音并不威严，但温柔中含有不得不服从的暗示，与此同时，她轻轻地拍打那狗几下，于是那狗转身闪进屋内。

        6．“你是谁？”一个粗厉声音响起，一位脸色阴沉的男人在狗的身后闪出。

        7．“请问，这里离G地还有多远？”我问道，乍开口，才觉得并不合适，那时的我不过想找个过夜的地方。

        8．“到G地去，”那男人大声地说，言语间却少了最初的苛厉，“从这到那还有不近的六英里路呢。”

        9．“路真够远的，我是步行来的，一个过路客，”我说，“如果你们让我在这歇上一晚，我真是感激不尽。”

        10．我看见那姑娘的手迅速上移，最后搭在那男人肩膀上，现在她贴那男人更近了点。

        11．“进来吧，看看我们能给你帮上什么忙。”那男人语气的变化让我有点喜出望外。我走进房间，房间很宽敞，火苗轻快地跳跃着。火堆边坐着两位粗硕身材的人，满脸阴沉地打量着我，明显带着不快的神情。一位中年妇女站在桌子旁边，两个孩子在地上逗着小猫玩。

        12．“妈妈，这位过路客，”刚才在门口粗鲁地与我打招呼的那位男人说道，“他想在这里过上一夜。”

        13．那妇人狐疑地打量我片刻，冷淡地说，“我们这没有客房。”

        14．“我，我知道，夫人，”我说，“不过，天太晚了，去G地路实在太远了。”



        15．“他走得太累了，前面的路那么远，”那好心的姑娘接着说，“别说了，妈妈，我们得给他准备个睡觉的地方。”

        16．起初，我还真没注意到，悄无声息地，那姑娘仄到她妈妈身边，那些话语很轻，我听不见她对母亲说了什么，不过，我留意到，那姑娘说话的当口，她那小巧美丽的手已搭在那妇人的手上。



              17．这就是触摸的神奇？那妇人反感冷淡的口吻转瞬变得柔和亲近，“是的，去G地的路还远着呢，我想，我们是得给他安排住下。”

        18．就在那个晚上，我确实留心到那双手、那个声音的神奇——温柔中透出强势力量。次日清早，早饭后，我打算告辞，男主人突然告诉我，如果我可以等半个时辰的话，他可以捎带我去G地，他要赶着马车去G地办事。我自然非常高兴地接受了他的好意。

        19．约定的时间到了，那农夫的马车来到屋前路上，我受邀上车后，这才看见那匹驾辕的马驹，那马驹面部粗糙，属于加拿大品种，具有顽强忍耐的优良品性。农夫上了车，坐在我身边，全家人走出门来给我们送行。

        20、“狄克！”那农夫严厉地呵斥，一边猛地拉动缰绳，狄克竟然没有挪步，“狄克！你这个懒鬼！快走呀。”农夫鞭子在小马耳边尖锐地乍响。

        21．依然毫不奏效。接下来，农夫语气变得委婉甚至恳求，小马驹还是无动于衷。然后，主人急躁的鞭子甩在了狄克身上，那马驹只是稍稍后退，接着又来了六七下快速猛烈的鞭笞，那农夫如果早知道他最终束手无策，还不如起先就鞭打那马车罢。

        22．一位身材粗硕的妇人走过来，她抓住马笼头猛地往前拉，嘴里不停叨唠类似场合那些粗鄙的话，但狄克愈发倔犟，死活不走，甚至还将它的前蹄翘起，死死地抵住地面。

        23．这会儿，那位不耐烦的男孩用钳子般手掌猛力撞击狄克头部，然后死命猛拽马的笼头，毫不奏效，狄克不会在这样暴力下尥开蹄子。

        24．“约翰，别这样！”我一转头，那位姑娘的温柔声音传了过来。

        她正迈过大门，来到路上。姑娘一把抓住那莽撞的家伙，将他从狄克身边甩开。她毫不费力地抓住了他的一只胳膊，他好像也相当乐意地与其配合，好像压根没有忤逆她的意思。

        25．眼前，那只温柔的手轻轻放在小马驹的脖颈上，姑娘轻声慢语地对它说话。不过转眼间，狄克紧张的肌肉已经松弛，僵持的坚冰终于打破。

        26．“可怜的狄克，”那姑娘一边说，一边轻轻拍着小马驹的脖颈，或者不如说，用那满怀柔情的孩子般手拍打狄克，“该走了，你这让人生气的孩子！”她的话语中夹杂责备，亦不乏温情脉脉，说话间，她还提了提笼头。

        27．狄克朝她转过身来，用头朝她胳膊蹭动片刻，然后竖立耳朵，轻快地跑起碎步，接着，尥开蹄子跑开了，好像刚才不曾有任何怪异的念头盘踞在它那固执的小脑瓜里。



              28．马车跑起来了，“手，该有多么神奇！”我对身边的人说道。

        29．农夫注视了我片刻，好像我的话使他偶发惊奇，他的脸上闪过一丝喜悦，却只说了句，“她心地仁慈，这里的人和那些牲口都喜欢她。”

        30．的确，难道她有神奇力量的秘密？抑或她的灵魂高贵？这位父亲的话无疑道出了真相，从那以后，我确实想知道，甚至今天，似乎更想弄明白，那姑娘轻抚的手里究竟存在什么样的神奇魔力。我见过同样的力量诉求，从容地表达爱恋与善行，但从未见过类似这位姑娘手里升起的奇迹，她给我内心带来了惊悚震撼。如果让我用贴切的词语形容，我宁愿称呼她为“温柔的手”。





        LESSON 4





THE GRANDFATHER


        爷 爷

        Charles G. Eastman (b. 1816, d.1861) was born in Maine, but removed at an early age to Vermont, where he was connected with the press at Burlington, Woodstock, and Montpelier. He published a volume of poems in 1848, written in a happy lyric and ballad style, and faithfully portraying rural life in New England.





        1. The farmer sat in his easy-chair

        Smoking his pipe of clay,

        While his hale[31] old wife with busy care,

        Was clearing the dinner away;

        A sweet little girl with fine blue eyes,

        On her grandfather’s knee, was catching flies.





        2. The old man laid his hand on her head,

        With a tear on his wrinkled face,

        He thought how often her mother, dead,

        Had sat in the selfsame place;

        As the tear stole down from his half-shut eye,

        “Don’t smoke!” said the child, “how it makes you cry!”





        3. The house dog lay stretched out on the floor,

        Where the shade, afternoons, used to steal;

        The busy old wife by the open door

        Was turning the spinning wheel,

        And the old brass clock on the manteltree[32]

        Had plodded[33] along to almost three.





        4. Still the farmer sat in his easy-chair,

        While close to his heaving[34] breast

        The moistened brow and the cheek so fair

        Of his sweet grandchild were pressed;

        His head bent down, all her soft hair lay;

        Fast asleep were they both on that summer day.




【中文阅读】

        查尔斯 · 基 · 伊士曼(1816～1861)出生于美国缅因，但早年就已迁往佛蒙特州，在那里，他与伯灵顿、伍兹托克以及蒙彼利埃数处媒体联系密切。1848年，他出版了以抒情和民谣风格表现的诗歌集，真实地描绘了新英格兰的乡村生活。





        1.躺在休闲椅上的老农，

         悠闲地抽着陶制烟斗，

         他硬朗的年迈妻子，

         忙碌收拾着杯盘狼藉。

         蓝眼睛可爱的小姑娘，

         趴在爷爷膝上捉蜻蜓。





        2.老人摩挲孙女的头，

         满脸皱纹，泪水扑簌在流。

         孩子的妈妈去世不久，

         好像还坐在从前地方。

         “不要抽烟！”孩子开口说话，

         “你怎么哭了，爷爷？”





        3.趴在午后荫凉地上，

         惬意打盹的老狗；

         片刻不得空闲的老妇人，

         门前，吱呀呀纺着棉花。

         壁炉楣顶上古老铜钟，

         快到三点的时针在爬。





        4.老人还躺在休闲椅上，

         他呼吸急促，神色安详，

         饱经沧桑的脸颊沾满泪渍，

         怀里抱着他可爱的孙女，

         头发蓬松，脑袋耷拉，

         夏日午后，祖孙俩都睡着啦。





        LESSON 5





A BOY ON A FARM


        农场少年

        Charles Dudley Warner (b. 1829,—d.1900) was born at Plainfield, Mass. In 1851 he graduated at Hamilton College, and in 1856 was admitted to the bar at Philadelphia, but moved to Chicago to practice his profession. There he remained until 1860, when he became connected with the press at Hartford, Conn., and has ever since devoted himself to literature. “My Summer in a Garden,” “Saunterings,” and “Backlog Studies” are his best known works. The following extract is from “Being a Boy.”





        1. Say what you will about the general usefulness of boys, it is my impression that a farm without a boy would very soon come to grief. What the boy does is the life of the farm. He is the factotum[35], always in demand, always expected to do the thousand indispensable[36] things that nobody else will do. Upon him fall all the odds and ends, the most difficult things.

        2. After everybody else is through, he has to finish up. His work is like a woman’s,—perpetually[37] waiting on others. Everybody knows how much easier it is to eat a good dinner than it is to wash the dishes afterwards. Consider what a boy on a farm is required to do,—things that must be done, or life would actually stop.

        3. It is understood, in the first place, that he is to do all the errands, to go to the store, to the post office, and to carry all sorts of messages. If he had as many legs as a centiped[38], they would tire before night. His two short limbs seem to him entirely inadequate to the task. He would like to have as many legs as a wheel has spokes, and rotate about in the same way.

        4. This he sometimes tries to do; and the people who have seen him “turning cart wheels” along the side of the road, have supposed that he was amusing himself and idling his time; he was only trying to invent a new mode of locomotion, so that he could economize[39] his legs, and do his errands with greater dispatch[40].

        5. He practices standing on his head, in order to accustom himself to any position. Leapfrog is one of his methods of getting over the ground quickly. He would willingly go an errand any distance if he could leapfrog it with a few other boys.

        6. He has a natural genius for combining pleasure with business. This is the reason why, when he is sent to the spring for a pitcher of water, he is absent so long; for he stops to poke the frog that sits on the stone, or, if there is a penstock[41], to put his hand over the spout, and squirt the water a little while.



              7. He is the one who spreads the grass when the men have cut it; he mows it away in the barn; he rides the horse, to cultivate the corn, up and down the hot, weary rows; he picks up the potatoes when they are dug; he drives the cows night and morning; he brings wood and water, and splits kindling; he gets up the horse, and puts out the horse; whether he is in the house or out of it, there is always something for him to do.

        8. Just before the school in winter he shovels paths; in summer he turns the grindstone. He knows where there are lots of wintergreens and sweet flags, but instead of going for them, he is to stay indoors and pare apples, and stone raisins, and pound something in a mortar. And yet, with his mind full of schemes of what he would like to do, and his hands full of occupations, he is an idle boy, who has nothing to busy himself with but school and chores[42]!

        9. He would gladly do all the work if somebody else would do the chores, he thinks; and yet I doubt if any boy ever amounted to anything in the world, or was of much use as a man, who did not enjoy the advantages of a liberal education in the way of chores.


【中文阅读】

        查尔斯 · 达德利 · 沃纳（1829～1900）出生于美国马萨诸塞州麦斯 · 普兰菲尔德。1851年，他从汉密尔顿学院毕业。1856年获取资格进入费城律师界，然后搬迁到芝加哥从事律师见习。1860年，他离开芝加哥，与康涅狄格州首府哈特福德出版界联系密切，随后致力投身文学事业。沃纳闻名于世的作品包括《花园的夏天》、《悠闲漫步》和《滞压工作研究》。下列节选自他的《少年有担当》。





        1. 你认为农场少年能做什么？依我看，没有少年的农场真的会非常糟糕。他们在农场生活里须臾不可少，他们是农场的闲杂总管，男女老少大呼小叫的左膀右臂。在农场里，千头万绪的事零星琐碎，最为困难的事棘手庞杂，无一例外都落到他们肩上，其他人委实无法帮忙。

        2. 别人忙完了活儿，农场少年得去扫尾，有点像一直忙着为别人做嫁衣的嫁娘，总得听从他人使唤。毋庸置疑，外出赴宴享受美味大餐永远比餐后洗碗刷碟轻松太多太多。只要想象一下农场少年的活儿，那些需要做的，可又不得不做的，否则，生活将无法继续下去。

        3. 首先，众所周知，农场少年得去做完所有跑腿的活计，他要跑商店、上邮局、送消息、传信件，即使他拥有蜈蚣一样的几十条腿，晚上上床躺倒前亦会累个半死。每天指望两条细腿跑路干活，看来远远不够，他们恨不得长有自行车轮毂上众多辐条般的腿，恐怕还要连轴转个不停。



              4. 有时，农场少年兴冲冲地到处奔跑，旁人看来，他们骑车忙着到处乱窜，或许还有人认为，他们纯粹是玩酷一族或借此消磨时光。其实，他们不过想创造某种新型的运动方式，以便节省腿力，完成更多支派或差遣。

        5. 农场少年还得练习倒立，以使自己习惯任何不拘一格的运动姿势。蛙跳行进堪称快捷走完路程的美妙方法之一。当然，能与其他几个狐朋狗友互动互乐更好，这样的话，他挺乐意四下跑腿，路再远似乎也毫不在乎。

        6. 忙中作乐，对农场少年来说，似乎是与生俱来的。如果让他去泉边汲水，很长时间他都不会回来。他总会时而停留片刻，或者戳捣一番趴在青石上的青蛙。碰到木槽水管之类，他非得将手伸到木槽下，乐不可支地玩会水后才心满意足地回家。

        7. 大人们割下田里的草，农场少年需要将青草摊开曝晒，还要将谷仓里干草堆成跺。他还要骑马、种玉米，上上下下，整天屁颠颠地左右逢源。马铃薯该收了，他跟着收庄稼；清晨，他赶着牛群外出放牧；黄昏，他牵着牛群打道回府；他还要拣柴、提水、劈柴、生火、喂马、洗马、拴马、遛马……家里家外，每天的事情总也做不完。

        8. 冬天开学前，农场少年先要铲除路上的坚冰积雪，夏天该找出磨石磨刀霍霍。他知道哪里的鹿蹄草最多，哪里的白菖蒲最甜，不过，他可不能急着出门摘采；他还得待在家里削苹果，将葡萄干晾晒在石片上，把食材放进研钵臼烂。他满脑子装满大大小小需要做的事，手上更是根本闲不住，难道他还能游手好闲？除去学业和家里家外的繁琐杂活，他哪有心思想到自己。

        9. 农场少年觉得，如果有人愿意揽下这些庞杂琐碎，他宁愿去做那些正儿八经的活儿。不过，我怀疑，如果一个少年不喜欢受益于这种干杂活的自由式教育，他将来是否能在世上找到自己可干点什么，能否做一个尽量有用之人。





        LESSON 6





THE SINGING LESSON


        唱歌课

        Jean Ingelow (b. 1830, d.1897) was born at Boston, Lincolnshire, England. Her fame as a poetess was at once established upon the publication of her “Poems” in 1863; since which time several other volumes have appeared. The most generally admired of her poems are “Songs of Seven” and “The High Tide on the Coast of Lincolnshire,” She has also written several successful novels, of which, “Off the Skelligs” is the most popular. “Stories Told to a Child,” “The Cumberers,” “Poor Mat,” “Studies for Stories,” and “Mopsa, the Fairy” are also well known. Miss Ingelow resided in London, England, and spent much of her time in deeds of charity.

        1. A nightingale made a mistake;

        She sang a few notes out of tune:

        Her heart was ready to break,

        And she hid away from the moon.

        She wrung her claws, poor thing,

        But was far too proud to weep;

        She tucked her head under her wing,

        And pretended to be asleep.





        2. A lark, arm in arm with a thrush,

        Came sauntering[43] up to the place;

        The nightingale felt herself blush,

        Though feathers hid her face;

        She knew they had heard her song,

        She felt them snicker[44] and sneer;

        She thought that life was too long,

        And wished she could skip a year.





        3. “O nightingale!” cooed a dove;

        “O nightingale! what’s the use?

        You bird of beauty and love,

        Why behave like a goose?

        Don’t sulk away from our sight,

        Like a common, contemptible fowl;

        You bird of joy and delight,

        Why behave like an owl?





        4. “Only think of all you have done;

        Only think of all you can do;

        A false note is really fun

        From such a bird as you!

        Lift up your proud little crest[45],

        Open your musical beak;

        Other birds have to do their best,

        You need only to speak!”

        5. The nightingale shyly took

        Her head from under her wing,

        And, giving the dove a look,

        Straightway began to sing.

        There was never a bird could pass;

        The night was divinely[46] calm;

        And the people stood on the grass

        To hear that wonderful psalm.





        6. The nightingale did not care,

        She only sang to the skies;

        Her song ascended there,

        And there she fixed her eyes.

        The people that stood below

        She knew but little about;

        And this tale has a moral[47], I know,

        If you’ll try and find it out.





        NOTE.—The nightingale is a small bird, about six inches in length, with a coat of dark-brown feathers above and of grayish, white beneath. Its voice is astonishingly strong and sweet, and, when wild, it usually sings throughout the evening and night from April to the middle of summer. The bird is common in Europe, but is not found in America.


【中文阅读】

        吉恩 · 英吉箩（1830～1897）生于英格兰林肯郡波士顿。1863年，她的《诗集》甫经推出，随即奠定了她的诗人声望。此后，她陆续出版了其他选集。最为世人推崇当为她的《七曲颂歌》以及《林肯郡海边的浪涛》。她也发表过数篇小说，获得声誉。其中《告别斯凯林斯》最为著名，《对一个孩子讲述的故事》、《累赘的人》、《可怜的垫子》、《故事剖析》以及《玛泊桑仙女》亦皆为世人熟知。吉恩·英吉箩居住在英国伦敦，一生大多时间致力慈善事业。





        1．一只夜莺，露了丑，

        刚开口唱歌，就跑了调，

        它的心儿，就要碎了，

        连忙赶紧，躲开月亮。

        不小心还扭了脚，这可怜家伙，

        是否太过骄傲，大哭一场，

        反正，它将头蜷缩翼翅下，

        装模作样地睡着了。





        2．云雀和画眉，肩并肩，

        蹒跚走过来，查看究竟，

        夜莺捂住，羞红的脸，

        虽然羽毛遮住，心中胆怯，

        它知道，鸟儿听见自己歌唱，

        叽喳嘲笑，犹如芒刺，

        它讨厌憎恨，时光漫长，

        一年眨眼过去，该有多棒！





        3．“哦，夜莺”，一只鸽子咕咕叫，

        “有什么大事不得了？

        你那么漂亮，又可爱，

        何必，像那些粗鄙家鹅？

        别躲在旮旯里，生闷气，

        也不要小鸡肚肠，没度量，

        你应该，开心更快乐，

        为什么，不学学猫头鹰？





        4．“只要想一想，你所做的，

        再思忖看看，你能做的，

        唱错了调，无关紧要，

        权当有趣，一笑别过。



              耸起你，那骄傲鸟冠，

        打开你，美丽的喙角，

        鸟儿们，竭力帮助你，

        不妨，亮开歌喉再唱歌。”





        5． 夜莺，羞愧地，

        从翼翅里，抬起头，

        感激中，看了鸽子一眼，

        蓦然间，亮开嗓门，

        鸟儿，纷纷飞来驻足，

        夜晚，霎时庄严静穆，

        草地上，人群安静伫立，

        聆听那，质朴无华的圣歌。





        6．夜莺，不再害怕，

        它的歌声，渐次上扬回旋，

        它的目光，悠然攀升，

        伴随着，响彻入云骄傲，

        歌声拂过，娴静无边夜色。

        夜莺，或许茫然不知，

        这篇故事，包含人生箴言，

        只要尝试，奇迹不难发现。





        LESSON 7





DO NOT MEDDLE


        请别多管闲事

        1. About twenty years ago there lived a singular gentleman in the Old Hall among the elm trees. He was about three-score years of age, very rich, and somewhat odd in many of his habits, but for generosity and benevolence he had no equal.

        2. No poor cottager stood in need of comforts, which he was not ready to supply; no sick man or woman languished[48] for want of his assistance; and not even a beggar, unless a known impostor[49], went empty-handed from the Hall. Like the village pastor described in Goldsmith’s poem of “The Deserted Village,”





        “His house was known to all the vagrant train;

        He chid their wand’rings, but relieved their pain;

        The long-remembered beggar was his guest,

        Whose beard descending swept his aged breast.”





        3. Now it happened that the old gentleman wanted a boy to wait upon him at table, and to attend him in different ways, for he was very fond of young people. But much as he liked the society of the young, he had a great aversion[50] to that curiosity in which many young people are apt to indulge[51]. He used to say, “The boy who will peep into a drawer will be tempted to take something out of it; and he who will steal a penny in his youth will steal a pound[52] in his manhood.”

        4. No sooner was it known that the old gentleman was in want of a boy than twenty applications[53] were made for the situation; but he determined not to engage anyone until he had in some way ascertained that he did not possess a curious, prying disposition.

        5. On Monday morning seven lads, dressed in their Sunday clothes, with bright and happy faces, made their appearance at the Hall, each of them desiring to obtain the situation. Now the old gentleman, being of a singular disposition,had prepared a room in such a way that he might easily know if any of the young people who applied were given to meddle unnecessarily with things around them, or to peep into cupboards and drawers. He took care that the lads who were then at Elm Tree Hall should be shown into this room one after another.



              6. And first, Charles Brown was sent into the room, and told that he would have to wait a little. So Charles sat down on a chair near the door. For some time he was very quiet, and looked about him; but there seemed to be so many curious things in the room that at last he got up to peep at them.

        7. On the table was placed a dish cover, and Charles wanted sadly to know what was under it, but he felt afraid of lifting it up. Bad habits are strong things; and, as Charles was of a curious disposition, he could not withstand the temptation of taking one peep. So he lifted up the cover.

        8. This turned out to be a sad affair; for under the dish cover was a heap of very light feathers; part of the feathers, drawn up by a current of air, flew about the room, and Charles, in his fright, putting the cover down hastily, puffed the rest of them off the table.

        9. What was to be done? Charles began to pick up the feathers one by one; but the old gentleman, who was in an adjoining room, hearing a scuffle, and guessing the cause of it, entered the room, to the consternation[54] of Charles Brown, who was very soon dismissed as a boy who had not principle[55] enough to resist even a slight temptation.

        10. When the room was once more arranged, Henry Wilkins was placed there until such time as he should be sent for. No sooner was he left to himself than his attention was attracted by a plate of fine, ripe cherries. Now Henry was uncommonly fond of cherries, and he thought it would be impossible to miss one cherry among so many. He looked and longed, and longed and looked, for some time, and just as he had got off his seat to take one, he heard, as he thought, a foot coming to the door; but no, it was a false alarm.

        11. Taking fresh courage, he went cautiously and took a very fine cherry, for he was determined to take but one, and put it into his mouth. It was excellent; and then he persuaded himself that he ran no risk in taking another; this he did, and hastily popped it into his mouth.

        12. Now, the old gentleman had placed a few artificial[56] cherries at the top of the others, filled with Cayenne pepper; one of these Henry had unfortunately taken, and it made his month smart and burn most intolerably[57]. The old gentleman heard him coughing, and knew very well what was the matter. The boy that would take what did not belong to him, if no more than a cherry, was not the boy for him. Henry Wilkins was sent about his business without delay, with his mouth almost as hot as if he had put a burning coal in to it.

        13. Rufus Wilson was next introduced into the room and left to himself; but he had not been there ten minutes before he began to move from one place to another. He was of a bold, resolute temper, but not overburdened with principle; for if he could have opened every cupboard, closet, and drawer in the house, without being found out, he would have done it directly.

        14. Having looked around the room, he noticed a drawer to the table, and made up his mind to peep therein. But no sooner did he lay hold of the drawer knob than he set a large bell ringing, which was concealed under the table. The old gentleman immediately answered the summons[58], and entered the room.



              15. Rufus was so startled by the sudden ringing of the bell, that all his impudence could not support him. He looked as though anyone might knock him down with a feather. The old gentleman asked him if he had rung the bell because he wanted anything. Rufus was much confused,and stammered, and tried to excuse himself, but all to no purpose, for it did not prevent him from being ordered off the premises.

        16. George Jones was then shown into the room by an old steward; and being of a cautious disposition, he touched nothing, but only looked at the things about him. At last he saw that a closet door was a little open, and, thinking it would be impossible for anyone to know that he had opened it a little more, he very cautiously opened it an inch farther, looking down at the bottom of the door, that it might not catch against anything and make a noise.

        17. Now had he looked at the top, instead of the bottom, it might have been better for him; for to the top of the door was fastened a plug, which filled up the hole of a small barrel of shot. He ventured to open the door another inch, and then another, till, the plug being pulled out of the barrel, the leaden shot began to pour out at a strange rate. At the bottom of the closet was placed a tin pan, and the shot falling upon this pan made such a clatter that George was frightened half out of his senses.

        18. The old gentleman soon came into the room to inquire what was the matter, and there he found George nearly as pale as a sheet. George was soon dismissed.

        19. It now came the turn of Albert Jenkins to be put into the room. The other boys had been sent to their homes by different ways, and no one knew what the experience[59] of the other had been in the room of trial.

        20. On the table stood a small round box, with a screw top to it, and Albert, thinking it contained something curious, could not be easy without unscrewing the top; but no sooner did he do this than out bounced an artificial snake, full a yard long, and fell upon his arm. He started back, and uttered a scream which brought the old gentleman to his elbow. There stood Albert, with the bottom of the box in one hand, the top in the other, and the snake on the floor.

        21. “Come, come,” said the old gentleman, “one snake is quite enough to have in the house at a time; therefore, the sooner you are gone the better.” With that he dismissed him, without waiting a moment for his reply.

        22. William Smith next entered the room, and being left alone soon began to amuse himself in looking at the curiosities around him. William was not only curious and prying, but dishonest, too, and observing that the key was left in the drawer of a bookcase, he stepped on tiptoe in that direction. The key had a wire fastened to it, which communicated with an electrical machine, and William received such a shock as he was not likely to forget. No sooner did he sufficiently recover himself to walk, than he was told to leave the house, and let other people lock and unlock their own drawers.

        23. The other boy was Harry Gordon, and though he was left in the room full twenty minutes, he never during that time stirred from his chair. Harry had eyes in his head as well as the others, but he had more integrity[60] in his heart; neither the dish cover, the cherries, the drawer knob, the closet door, the round box, nor the key tempted him to rise from his feet; and the consequence was that, in half an hour after, he was engaged in the service of the old gentleman at Elm Tree Hall. He followed his good old master to his grave, and received a large legacy[61] for his upright conduct in his service.




【中文阅读】

        1．大约20年前，一处榆树簇拥的古老庄园里，住着一位超凡脱俗的乡间绅士。他约莫60来岁，非常富有，行为举止有点乖张，但他为人慷慨，处事宽宏大方，而且宅心仁厚，无人堪比。

        2．无论遇见贫苦潦倒的佃农雇工，或者憔悴羸弱的乡邻妇孺，甚至衣衫褴褛的乞丐，他总是不吝钱财，鼎力相助。只有那些恶名昭彰的诈骗之徒，才会两手空空地离开。正如戈德史密斯诗歌《被抛弃的村庄》中曾经描述的那样，“他的门口，流浪汉排成了长队，他呵斥那些人的原罪，却倾心减除他们痛苦，甚至有位记忆苍老的乞丐，简直成为他的座上客，那老人髯须灰白，垂到皱纹如縠的胸间。”

        3．当时，那位年迈绅士正需要一名伺童照料他的生活起居，他很喜爱年轻人。然而，他愈喜欢年轻人的社会，就愈憎恶不少年轻人深陷五花八门的走火入魔。他总是说，“喜欢窥探他人抽屉的孩子，不由自主总想拿走点东西。俗语说得好：‘少时偷针，大时偷金’。”

        4．那位乡绅要找伺童的消息一经传开，二十来位想要为自己孩子谋就职位的乡邻纷纷挤上门来。老人执意不愿雇用，他心里明白，唯有通过某种程序以验证雇佣孩子是否具有良好的品格，那些孩子应该既不好奇心太盛，亦不爱多管闲事，他才能彻底放心。

        5．一个周一的早晨，七名少年穿上礼拜的衣服，脸上洋溢着开心幸福的笑容，聚集到那座庄园门口。人人都急切获得那个职位。那性格怪异的老人早已备好一处房间，以待更好察看应聘少年的品行，检测他们是否安分守己，是否不窥探自己不该知道的东西。他下令将那些站在榆树庄园里的少年逐一领进那处房间。

        6．查尔斯·布朗第一个被带进房间，有人告诉他，让他在房间里稍等片刻。于是查尔斯在门边椅子上坐下，刚开始，他一声不吭，环顾四周，房间里好玩东西实在诱惑太多，最后，他忍不住站起来到处查看。

        7．一个盘子倒扣桌上，查尔斯急切想弄清盘子下究竟藏有什么东西，可又害怕将盘子掀开。查尔斯的坏习惯看来根深蒂固，与好奇心不相上下，他实在抵挡不住窥探一眼的诱惑，于是将盘子倒翻过来，这下够糟了，原来盘子下堆着一簇细小羽毛。在气流的裹挟下，有的羽毛被吹开，忽悠悠到处乱飘。恐惧中的查尔斯匆忙将盘子盖上，还没忘记顺嘴吹走桌上剩下的细绒。



              下步该做什么？查尔斯迅速逐一拣拾羽绒。此刻，那位老人走进房间，原来他就在隔壁，听到了这边的手忙脚乱，猜到了事情的原委经过。没有足够定力的少年，竟然无法抵制如此微小的诱惑。使查尔斯·布朗大为惊愕的是，他很快就被打发回家。

        10．当房间再度安排妥当，亨利·威尔金斯被带了进来。他亦得单独待上一段时间。片刻工夫，看到一盘鲜艳熟透的莓果，他的眼球就错不开了。亨利喜爱莓果，称得上情有独钟。他暗中思忖，这么大一盘莓果，不品咂上一颗似乎绝无可能。他左盯右看，心里七上八下。就在他站起来，准备抓起一颗，他听见，不，他以为有脚步声走来，原来却是闹钟滴嗒声，弄得他虚惊一场。

        11．亨利重新鼓起勇气，小心翼翼走上前，抓了只艳红的果子。原本他只拿一颗，但品尝后发现，那莓果味道实在太好，他不停地说服自己，绝不能冒险再拿一颗，然而还是伸出了手。仓促中，果实“砰”的一声落进他的嘴里。

        12．原来，老人在莓果上放了几颗人造果实，里面夹杂辣椒或胡椒面，亨利不巧拿到那颗假果，刚进口，那辛辣味道让他实在无法忍受。老人听见隔壁咳嗽声，便已洞悉这边发生的事情。那可怜的少年，拿取不属于自己的东西，尽管不过一颗莓子，对老人来说，也就完全失去了聘用意义。威尔金斯毫不迟延地被带了出去，当时他的口腔冒火，嘴里像塞了块燃煤。

        13．随后，鲁弗斯 · 威尔森被吩咐走进房间。不到十分钟，他就开始在房间里转悠开了。他胆子很大，性格果敢，对诚信的原则问题似乎不太介意，如果不被发现的话，或许房间内每扇橱柜、壁柜甚至抽屉皆能被他逐一打开，无须任何踌躇或犹豫。

        14．四周看看，鲁弗斯看到了桌子抽屉，他一心想知道里面装有什么。不料他刚刚捏住抽屉把手，旋即铃声大作，原来那响铃竟隐蔽地装在桌下。听到铃声，老人迅速走进房间。

        15．鲁弗斯被突如其来的铃声完全弄懵了，他的所有鲁莽无法自圆其说。他看起来那么不堪一击，似乎一根羽毛也能将其击倒。老人问他是否需要什么才揿动响铃，尴尬的鲁弗斯结结巴巴，不知所措，张口还想辩解什么，却又莫衷一是，理由愈发站不住脚，最终还是没能逃脱被要求离开的结局。



              16．乔治·琼斯由一位老管家领进房间，他生性谨慎小心，不敢触动屋内任何物品，只用眼光横扫室内一圈。最后，他发现一扇壁橱的门露出些许缝隙，他想，如果自己将那门稍微开大些，亦断然不会为人察觉。于是他看了看门底，确信不会挂住什么，发出声音，然后小心翼翼地将门打开一点缝隙。

        17．如果他当时查看门顶而不是门底，情况或许要好些。因为壁橱门顶被一处木栓固定，栓后有处孔洞，洞里塞满许多细小铅沙粒。乔治试着将门轻轻打开点，再开一些，木栓终于从孔洞脱落，细小铅粒以难以想象的速度四下飞迸。壁橱下置一个锡盘，泻出的铅粒哗啦啦掉落到锡盘上，发出噼里啪啦的声响，乔治吓得血液似乎都凝固了。

        18．老人很快走进屋，询问究竟出了什么事。乔治脸色苍白，很快便被打道回府。

        19．下面轮到艾尔伯特·詹金斯登台亮相。已被淘汰的少年通过不同路径送出庄园，他们在那间屋子的不同经历当然无人知晓。

        20．桌上放着一只很小的圆箱，箱盖上嵌有螺帽，艾尔伯特仔细端详，那箱里肯定装有好奇的东西。他思忖如果不拧松螺帽，便不可能打开箱子。可他刚刚拧动螺帽，忽然箱里弹出一条蛇，一码来长的假蛇，啪地落到了他的胳膊上。他吓得连忙后退，大声尖叫起来。老人赶来抓住艾尔伯特的手肘，艾尔伯特僵直地站着，一只手抓着箱底，另只手抓着箱盖，那条假蛇掉在地上，一动不动。

        21．“得了，得了，”老人说道，“有时，家里有条蛇还是不错的，这样的话，还是快走为好！”说话间，老人即刻令人将艾尔伯特送走，容不得他半点解释。

        22. 接下来，威廉姆 · 史密斯走进房间，周围一旦没人，他马上开始东张西望，到处巡睃周围好玩的物件。威廉姆好奇心忒重，喜欢包打听，人还不够诚实。他留意到书柜抽屉上留下的钥匙，于是踮起脚尖走过去。钥匙上拴有一根金属线，线那头连接一台电机，那种电击可能让他终生难忘。威廉姆从电击中缓过神，刚能挪步，就被告知即刻回家，至于那些抽屉是否打开还是关闭，已与他全然无关。

        23．接下来的哈利·戈登也被单独留在屋里长达二十分钟，他没有离开座椅到处走动。哈利眼力不错，他与其他少年一样，但他更具有别人没有的诚实。盘盖也好，莓果也罢，或是抽屉把手，或是壁橱柜门，或是圆盒，或是钥匙，没有东西可以诱惑哈利。半小时后，哈利最终被留在榆树山庄。哈利忠心耿耿地为老人服务，为他养老送终。由于哈利为人正派，举止端庄，最终继承了老人大笔遗产。





        LESSON 8





WORK


        劳 动

        Eliza Cook (b. 1817, d. 1889) was born at London. In 1837 she commenced contributing to periodicals. In 1840 the first collection of her poems was made. In 1849 she became editor of “Eliza Cook’s Journal.”





        1. Work, work, my boy, be not afraid;

        Look labor boldly in the face;

        Take up the hammer or the spade,

         And blush not for your humble place.





        2. There’s glory in the shuttle’s song;

        There’s triumph in the anvil’s stroke;

        There’s merit in the brave and strong

        Who dig the mine or fell the oak.





        3. The wind disturbs the sleeping lake,

        And bids it ripple pure and fresh;

        It moves the green boughs till they make

        Grand music in their leafy mesh[62].





        4. And so the active breath of life

        Should stir our dull and sluggard wills;

        For are we not created rife[63]

        With health, that stagnant[64] torpor[65] kills?





        5. I doubt if he who lolls[66] his head

        Where idleness and plenty meet,

        Enjoys his pillow or his bread

        As those who earn the meals they eat.





        6. And man is never half so blest

        As when the busy day is spent



              So as to make his evening rest

        A holiday of glad content.


【中文阅读】

        伊莉莎 · 库克（1817～1889）生于伦敦。1837年，开始投身杂志出版事业。1840年，她的第一部诗歌选集问世。1849年，她成为《伊莉莎 · 库克》杂志编辑。





        1．干活，我的孩子，不要害怕；

        勇敢地，面对劳动；

        从容地拿起，锤子铁锨，

        千万不要，为卑微感到羞愧。





        2．穿梭机，歌唱中赋有荣光；

        铁砧敲打，寓意着凯旋胜利，

        勇敢坚强，涵盖人的优秀品德；

        阳光照耀，工人们坚实臂膀。





        3．微风，拂起沉睡的湖面，

        撩动，优美的水意潺潺；

        狂风，挪动绿意葱茏的枝干，

        茂密丛林，奏起交响奇观。





        4． 生命翕动，吐出力的欢畅，

        是否搅翻，沉寂的死水昏然？

        如果不愿，沦陷致命慵懒，

        哪怕身体康健，情欲正常？





        5． 是否，他还无力地歪着头，

        恣意放纵，将怠惰富足写在脸上，

        沉湎于，烟水繁华的食色享受，

        与艰难讨生活面孔，相得益彰。





        6．如果，铭记生活中点滴感恩，

        忙碌充足，度过愉快时光，

        节日礼花，绽放成光明降临，

        夜晚的心，最终皈依安康。





        LESSON 9





THE MANIAC


        疯 子

        1. A gentleman who had traveled in Europe, relates that he one day visited the hospital of Berlin, where he saw a man whose exterior[67] was very striking. His figure, tall and commanding, was bending with age, but more with sorrow; the few scattered hairs which remained on his temples were white almost as the driven snow, and the deepest melancholy was depicted[68] in his countenance.

        2. On inquiring who he was and what brought him there, he started, as, if from sleep, and, after looking around him, began with slow and measured steps to stride the hall, repeating in a low but audible voice, “Once one is two; once one is two.”

        3. Now and then he would stop, and remain with his arms folded on his breast as if in contemplation[69], for some minutes; then again resuming his walk, he continued to repeat, “Once one is two; once one is two.” His story, as our traveler understood it, is as follows:

        4. Conrad Lange, collector of the revenues[70] of the city of Berlin, had long been known as a man whom nothing could divert from the paths of honesty. Scrupulously[71] exact in an his dealings, and assiduous[72] in the discharge of all his duties, he had acquired the good will and esteem of all who knew him, and the confidence of the minister of finance[73], whose duty it is to inspect the accounts of all officers connected with the revenue.

        5. On casting up his accounts at the close of a particular year, he found a deficit[74] of ten thousand ducats[75]. Alarmed at this discovery, he went to the minister, presented his accounts, and informed him that he did not know how it had arisen, and that he had been robbed by some person bent on his ruin.

        6. The minister received his accounts, but thinking it a duty to secure a person who might probably be a defaulter[76],he caused him to be arrested, and put his accounts into the hands of one of his secretaries for inspection, who returned them the day after with the information that the deficiency arose from a miscalculation; that in multiplying, Mr. Lange had said, once one is two, instead of once one is one.



              7. The poor man was immediately released from confinement, his accounts returned, and the mistake pointed out. During his imprisonment, which lasted two days, he had neither eaten, drunk, nor taken any repose; and when he appeared, his countenance was as pale as death. On receiving his accounts, he was a long time silent; then suddenly awaking, as if from a trance, he repeated, “Once one is two.”

        8. He appeared to be entirely insensible of his situation; would neither eat nor drink, unless solicited; and took notice of nothing that passed around him. While repeating his accustomed phrase, if anyone corrected him by saying, “Once one is one,” his attention was arrested for a moment, and he said, “Ah, right, once one is one;” and then resuming his walk, he continued to repeat, “Once one is two.” He died shortly after the traveler left Berlin.

        9. This affecting story, whether true or untrue, obviously[77] abounds with lessons of instruction. Alas! how easily is the human mind thrown off its balance; especially when it is stayed on this world only, and has no experimental knowledge of the meaning of the injunction[78] of Scripture, to cast all our cares upon Him who careth for us, and who heareth even the young ravens when they cry.


【中文阅读】

        1．一位绅士曾去欧洲旅行，有一天，他去参观柏林一家医院。在医院里，他遇见一位男人，那人看上去令人吃惊。他身材高大，器宇轩昂，由于上了年纪，腰也弓了，脸上满是悲伤，鬓角残留些许灰白头发，像被碾压的路旁积雪，面孔上刻着深藏的忧郁。

        2．我询问他的身世，询问他如何这般模样。他仿佛从梦中醒来，环顾一下四周，开始缓慢却不失标准地在医院门厅前后踱步，嘴里还不停嘟哝，声音很小，但还算清晰：“一一得二，一一得二”。

        3．他时而停下，胳膊交叉胸前，似乎陷入一阵冥思祈祷，过了一会儿，又继续走动起来，嘴里依然重复：“一一得二，一一得二。”下面就是他的人生，留存在一个观光客记忆里的故事。

        4．康拉德·兰格曾是柏林市的税务官，多年来，他为人正派，极富声望。历年税务征收中，他总是力求一丝不苟的精确，勤勉地履行职责。熟捻他的人，无不对他赞誉有加。作为柏林市财政长官，负责稽查所有官员账户，厘清该市税收众多的资金往来，为他的职责所在。

        5．一个不同寻常的年末，康拉德清理完他的所有账目后，突然发现账面竟然出现一万元的亏空。他大为惊愕，面见部长后，他提交了自己的账务报告，并向部长陈述有人对他实施了抢劫，至于具体原因，尚一无所知，肯定有人想蓄意谋害他。



              6．部长接管了税务官账目，不过，他认为，这位税务官极可能涉嫌犯罪，应该即刻予以关押。在部长授意下，康拉德随后遭到逮捕。部长将康拉德的账目交与他的下属稽查，那位下属最终查明了亏空原因，原来，康拉德计算出现失误，他的乘法口诀背错了，正是故事开头他那句话，“一一得二，而不是一一得一”。

        7．倒霉的税务官很快从监狱里释放出来，他的账目亦已返还，他的错误自然得到纠正。前后两天关押期间，他不吃、不喝，甚至没打过一个盹。从监狱释放出来后，康拉德面如死灰。拿到他的账本后，突然间，他似乎从恍惚中苏醒过来，嘴里依然振振有词，“一一得二。”

        8．看来，可怜的税务官完全失去了自主意识，他还是不吃不喝，除非有人央求他。他对周围所有事情茫然无知，只是不停地念叨那句话。如果有人试图纠正他，告诉他“一一得一”，他留心片刻，随即改口说，“哦，不错，一一得一。”然后，又开始来回踱步，嘴里还是继续念叨，“一一得二。”那位旅游者离开柏林不久，康拉德，死了。

        9．这故事无论真假，让人唏嘘不已，故事蕴涵深刻，不乏指导意义。唉，尤其当今世道，人心如此容易失衡，完全不再具备《圣经》里警示训诫做人的基本常识。将人类所有忧虑不安寄予上帝，她对众生心怀悲悯；哪怕一只雏鸦嘶鸣哭泣，那万能的主亦能听见。





        LESSON 10





ROBIN REDBREAST


        知更鸟

        William Allingham (b. 1828, d. 1889) was born at Ballyshannon, Ireland. His father was a banker, and gave him a good education in Irish schools. He showed his literary tastes at an early date, contributing to periodicals, etc. In 1850 he published his first volume of poems; in 1854 his “Day and Night Songs” appeared, and in 1864 a poem in twelve chapters entitled “Lawrence Bloomfield in Ireland,” His reputation was established chiefly through his shorter lyrics, or ballad poetry. In 1864 he received a literary pension.

        1. Good-by, good-by to Summer!

        For Summer’s nearly done;

        The garden smiling faintly,

        Cool breezes in the sun;

        Our thrushes now are silent,

        Our swallows flown away,—

        But Robin’s here in coat of brown,

        And scarlet brestknot gay.

        Robin, Robin Redbreast,

        O Robin dear!

        Robin sings so sweetly

        In the falling of the year.





        2. Bright yellow, red, and orange,

        The leaves come down in hosts;

        The trees are Indian princes,

        But soon they’ll turn to ghosts;

        The leathery pears and apples

        Hang russet on the bough;

        It’s autumn, autumn, autumn late,

        ’T will soon be winter now.

        Robin, Robin Redbreast,

        O Robin dear!

        And what will this poor Robin do?

        For pinching days are near.





        3. The fireside for the cricket,

        The wheat stack for the mouse,



              When trembling night winds whistle

        And moan all round the house.

        The frosty ways like iron,

        The branches plumed with snow,—

        Alas! in winter dead and dark,

        Where can poor Robin go?

        Robin, Robin Redbreast,

        O Robin dear!

        And a crumb of bread for Robin,

        His little heart to cheer.





        Notes.—The Old World Robin here referred to is quite different in appearance and habits from the American Robin. It is only about half the size of the latter. Its prevailing color above is olive green, while the forehead, cheeks, throat, and breast are a light yellowish red. It does not migrate, but is found at all seasons throughout temperate Europe, Asia Minor, and northern Africa.


【中文阅读】

        威廉 · 亚力汉姆（1828～1889）生于爱尔兰巴利沙侬，银行家的父亲给予他良好的教育。亚力汉姆很早就展现了他的文学审美才华，致力投身期刊杂志等文学事业。1850年，出版了他的首部诗集；1854年，他的《昼夜之歌》问世；1864年，他的一首标题为《劳伦斯 · 布卢姆菲尔德在爱尔兰》 诗歌出版，该诗囊括12个章节。亚力汉姆的短篇抒情诗及乡村歌谣为他赢得了文学声望。1864年，他接受了文学年金嘉奖。





        1．再见，与夏季挥手作别，

        炎热的舞台，即将落幕，

        花园里，笑声黯淡下来，

        微风，吹过九月艳阳，

        画眉，不再引吭高歌，

        燕子， 亦成群结对飞远。

        知更鸟，身穿褐色衣裳，

        猩红色围脖，夺目耀眼，

        知更鸟，知更鸟，

        那么可爱，我的鸟儿。

        你婉转的歌声，清脆明亮，

        落在枝头，满眼夏日灿烂。





              2．明黄、艳红、亮橘斑斓，

        落叶纷飞里，光影迷乱，

        叙述昨天的树，繁复故事，

        寒风中，即将形销骨立，

        印度王子般，挺立依然。

        苹果树、梨树，外皮粗韧，

        赤褐色果实，点缀在夕阳苍峦，

        晚秋的步履，迟缓沉重，

        转眼间，迎来霁雪初寒。

        知更鸟，知更鸟，

        那么快乐，我的鸟儿。

        温暖的秋阳，风声中消失，

        你将如何，飞进浓密黑暗，

        最终躲过，萧瑟寒冬难关？





        3．蟋蟀，猫在壁炉过冬，

        老鼠，钻进麦堆取暖，

        颤栗的风，呼啸着刮过村庄，

        锐利疼痛，撕裂出呻吟呼喊。

        路上，泛着银色寒霜，

        大雪皑皑，铺开白色殿堂，

        冬天枝桠上，到处写满死亡。

        知更鸟，你究竟飞向何方？

        知更鸟，知更鸟，

        那么可爱， 我的鸟儿。

        为你，我撒上面包屑，

        你在枝头雀跃，报以欢欣。





        LESSON 11





THE FISH I DIDN’T CATCH


        脱钩的狗鱼

        John Greenleaf Whittier was born near Haverhill, Mass., in 1807, and died at Hampton Falls, N.H., in 1892. His boyhood was passed on a farm, and he never received a classical education. In 1829 he edited a newspaper in Boston. In the following year he removed to Hartford, Conn., to assume a similar position. In 1836 he edited an antislavery paper in Philadelphia. In 1840 he removed to Amesbury, Mass. Mr. Whittier’s parents were Friends, and he always held to the same faith. He wrote extensively both in prose and verse. As a poet, he ranked among those most highly esteemed and honored by his countrymen. “Snow Bound” is one of the longest and best of his poems.





        1. Our bachelor uncle who lived with us was a quiet, genial[79] man, much given to hunting and fishing; and it was one of the pleasures of our young life to accompany him on his expeditions to Great Hill, Brandy-brow Woods, the Pond, and, best of all, to the Country Brook. We were quite willing to work hard in the cornfield or the haying lot to finish the necessary day’s labor in season for an afternoon stroll through the woods and along the brookside.

        2. I remember my first fishing excursion as if it were but yesterday. I have been happy many times in my life, but never more intensely so than when I received that first fishing pole from my uncle’s hand, and trudged off with him through the woods and meadows. It was a still, sweet day of early summer; the long afternoon shadows of the trees lay cool across our path; the leaves seemed greener, the flowers brighter, the birds merrier, than ever before.

        3. My uncle, who knew by long experience where were the best haunts [80]of pickerel, considerately[81] placed me at the most favorable point. I threw out my line as I had so often seen others, and waited anxiously for a bite, moving the bait in rapid jerks on the surface of the water in imitation of the leap of a frog. Nothing came of it. “Try again,” said my uncle. Suddenly the bait sank out of sight. “Now for it,” thought I; “here is a fish at last.”

        4. I made a strong pull, and brought up a tangle of weeds. Again and again I cast out my line with aching arms, and drew it back empty. I looked at my uncle appealingly[82]. “Try once more,” he said; “we fishermen must have patience.”

        5. Suddenly something tugged at my line, and swept off with it into deep water. Jerking it up, I saw a fine pickerel wriggling in the sun. “Uncle!” I cried, looking back in uncontrollable excitement, “I’ve got a fish!” “Not yet,” said my uncle. As he spoke there was a plash in the water; I caught the arrowy gleam of a scared fish shooting into the middle of the stream, my hook hung empty from the line. I had lost my prize.





              6. We are apt to speak of the sorrows of childhood as trifles in comparison with



        those of grown-up people; but we may depend upon it the young folks don’t agree with us. Our griefs, modified[83] and restrained by reason, experience,and self-respect, keep the proprieties[84], and, if possible, avoid a scene; but the sorrow of childhood, unreasoning and all-absorbing[85], is a complete abandonment to the passion. The doll’s nose is broken, and the world breaks up with it; the marble rolls out of sight, and the solid globe rolls off with the marble.

        7. So, overcome with my great and bitter disappointment, I sat down on the nearest hassock[86], and for a time refused to be comforted, even by my uncle’s assurance that there were more fish in the brook. He refitted my bait, and, putting the pole again in my hands, told me to try my luck once more.

        8. “But remember, boy,” he said, with his shrewd smile, “never brag of catching a fish until he is on dry ground. I’ve seen older folks doing that in more ways than one, and so making fools of themselves. It’s no use to boast of anything until it’s done, nor then, either, for it speaks for itself.”



              9. How often since I have been reminded of the fish that I did not catch. When I hear people boasting of a work as yet undone, and trying to anticipate[87] the credit which belongs only to actual achievement[88], I call to mind that scene by the brookside, and the wise caution of my uncle in that particular instance takes the form of a proverb of universal application: “NEVER BRAG OF YOUR FISH BEFORE YOU CATCH HIM.”


【中文阅读】

        1807年，约翰 · 格林利夫 · 惠蒂尔出生于美国马萨诸塞州的哈福希尔附近地区，1892年在新罕布什尔州汉普敦大瀑布逝世。惠蒂尔在农场度过了童年时代，他从未接受过任何传统教育。1829年，惠蒂尔在波士顿开始编撰报纸，翌年搬迁到美国康涅狄格州首府哈特福特市继续编辑职业。1836年，他在费城从事反对奴隶制报刊编辑工作。1840年，他又迁回马萨诸塞州埃姆斯伯里。惠蒂尔父母为基督教公教会教友，他本人亦笃信基督教，一生写有大量散文与诗歌，堪称为美国最负声望及受人爱戴的诗人之一。《雪原》是他篇幅最长、最为优异的一篇诗歌作品。





        1．与我们全家共同生活的鳏夫叔叔沉默寡言，性情温和，打猎或垂钓占据他生活中大多时光，于是，跟随他到处郊游野足成了我们年少时乐此不疲的快乐生活。我们足迹遍及格瑞特山、布兰迪山坡森林和大湖等地方。令我们最为心驰神往的还是那条康瑞河。夏季来临，我们通常在玉米地或干草堆边挥汗如雨，筋疲力尽地做完当天必须完成的农活，午后，我们便钻进丛林，或者沿那条康瑞河尽兴散步。

        2．恍惚如昨天发生的一切，那是我首次出去钓鱼。在我一生中，有过许多快乐时光，可这次钓鱼，却给我留下刻骨铭心的记忆。平生第一次，我从叔叔手里接过那根鱼竿，随他穿过那簇簇丛林，涉过翻飞草场，一路跋涉步履艰难。记得当时正值初夏，四周安静极了，路边枝繁叶茂，遮蔽了午后漫长的阳光，满地蓊郁夹杂五颜六色的野花，鸟声鸣啾不断，天地间似乎未曾有过这样的美妙柔和。

        3．由于长期垂钓生涯，经验丰富的叔叔谙知狗鱼出没之地，他极为慎重地帮我选好上佳的垂钓地方。素日观看他人钓鱼颇多，我也学着别人模样，用力甩出长长的钓线，然后焦急地等待鱼儿上来咬钩；还不时模仿青蛙蹦跳姿势，沿水面上猛拽鱼饵，半晌，也没见一条鱼儿上钩。“再试一次，”叔叔对我叫道。突然，鱼钩沉下水面，“有了，”我心头一喜，“咬钩了。”



              4．我猛地提起鱼竿，拽出的却是缠成一团的水草。再来一次，我总是满怀希望地抛出钓线，却还是一无所获，胳膊亦隐约疼痛起来。我求救地看了看叔叔，“再试试，”他对我说，“钓鱼的人需要格外耐心。”

        5．忽然，什么东西扯住了鱼线，猛地往下一拽，我扯住鱼竿拉起一看，一条漂亮的狗鱼在阳光下挣扎扭动，“叔叔！”我回头大声叫道，抑制不住满心激动。“我钓到了一条大鱼！”“哎，”叔叔的话未说完，刹那间，水面溅起浪花，只见一道箭矢般银光划过，那条大鱼跃入水中，我手握的那柄钓竿上，只留下空空的饵钩，呜呼！到手的大狗鱼就这样在我的眼皮下溜走了。

        6.我们极易谈及孩提时代的懊恼，与成人那些痛苦比较，尽管鸡毛蒜皮，不值一提，但总会耿耿于怀。当然，年轻人看来每每不以为然。因理性、经验、甚至自尊改变并抑制的童年痛苦，将会演变成一种安之若素的面对，可能的话，我们或许不再百般纠结闷闷不乐。然而，孩提时代缺乏理性、沉湎痛苦难以自拔，却是任由性情恣意放纵。洋娃娃鼻子破了，整个世界随之打碎；弹子球滚不见了，整个天地接着地陷天塌。

        7.哎呀，一种说不出来的锥心痛苦攫取了我，我倍感失望，一屁股颓然瘫坐在身边的草墩上，叔叔好言好语的相劝亦无法使我平静下来。他一再劝说我，“河里的鱼，反正多着呢。”然后一声不吭地帮我重新安好鱼饵，将鱼竿递给我，嘱咐我再来试试手气。

        8.“孩子，请记住，”叔叔最后对我说，脸上露出狡黠笑意，“切忌不可自吹自擂，除非鱼儿上岸入笼。我这一生，见过多少年轻人花样翻新的吹牛，结果呢？徒给世人留下几多笑话。凡事八字未见一撇，不可吹嘘张扬。谨慎从事，低调做人，事实胜于雄辩。”

        9.从此，每当我一次次听到周围朋友吐沫四溅地吹嘘自己遥遥无期的奋斗目标，为人行事不切实际，却又指望成功唾手可得，那条漏网的大狗鱼总会不失时机地跳跃在我的面前，河边钓鱼的场景再度浮现。当年叔叔那么睿智冷静，循循善诱地开导我不可鲁莽，寡言者智，一条谚语教我悟透人生玄机：“静以修身，静水流深。”





        LESSON 12





IT SNOWS


        下雪了

        Sarah Josepha Hale (b. 1788, d.1879) was born in Newport, N.H. Her maiden name was Buell. In 1814 she married David Hale, an eminent lawyer, who died in 1822. Left with five children to support, she turned her attention to literature. In 1828 she became editor of the “Ladies’ Magazine.” In 1837 this periodical was united with “Godey’s Lady’s Book,” of which Mrs. Hale was literary editor for more than forty years.





        1. “It snows!” cries the Schoolboy, “Hurrah!” and his shout

         Is ringing through parlor and hall,

        While swift as the wing of a swallow, he’s out,

         And his playmates have answered his call;

        It makes the heart leap but to witness their joy;

         Proud wealth has no pleasures, I trow[89],

        Like the rapture that throbs in the pulse of the boy

         As he gathers his treasures of snow;

        Then lay not the trappings[90] of gold on thine heirs,

        While health and the riches of nature are theirs.





        2. “It snows!” sighs the Imbecile[91], “Ah!” and his breath

         Comes heavy, as clogged with a weight;

        While, from the pale aspect of nature in death,

         He turns to the blaze of his grate;

        And nearer and nearer, his soft-cushioned chair

         Is wheeled toward the life-giving flame;

        He dreads a chill puff of the snow-burdened air,

         Lest it wither his delicate frame;

        Oh! small is the pleasure existence can give,

        When the fear we shall die only proves that we live!

        3. “It snows!” cries the Traveler, “Ho!” and the word

         Has quickened his steed’s lagging pace;

        The wind rushes by, but its howl is unheard,

         Unfelt the sharp drift in his face;

        For bright through the tempest his own home appeared,



               Ay, though leagues intervened[92], he can see:

        There’s the clear, glowing hearth, and the table prepared,

         And his wife with her babes at her knee;

        Blest thought! how it lightens the grief-laden hour,

        That those we love dearest are safe from its power!





        4. “It snows!” cries the Belle, “Dear, how lucky!” and turns

         From her mirror to watch the flakes fall,

        Like the first rose of summer, her dimpled cheek burns!

         While musing[93] on sleigh ride and ball:

        There are visions of conquests[94], of splendor, and mirth,

         Floating over each drear winter’s day;

        But the tintings[95] of Hope, on this storm-beaten earth,

         Will melt like the snowflakes away.

        Turn, then thee to Heaven, fair maiden, for bliss;

        That world has a pure fount ne’er opened in this.





         5. “It snows!” cries the Widow, “O God!” and her sighs

         Have stifled[96] the voice of her prayer;

        Its burden ye’ll read in her tear-swollen eyes,

         On her cheek sunk with fasting and care.

        ’T is night, and her fatherless ask her for bread,

         But “He gives the young ravens their food,”

        And she trusts till her dark hearth adds horror to dread.,

         And she lays on her last chip of wood.

        Poor sufferer! that sorrow thy God only knows;

        ’T is a most bitter lot to be poor when it snows.


【中文阅读】

        莎拉 · 约瑟福 · 黑尔（1788～1879）出生于美国新罕布什尔州纽波特，她未婚时的名字为布埃尔。1814年，莎拉与著名律师大卫•黑尔结婚，1822年，大卫离世后，给她留下5个嗷嗷待哺的孩子，黑尔夫人随后转向文学。1828年，她成为《妇女杂志》编辑。1837年，该杂志与《戈迪妇女丛书》合并，黑尔夫人担任该杂志文学编辑，长达40多年。





        1．“下雪了！”一位校园男生高声叫着，“太好啦！”伴随一声尖叫划过门厅，穿过走廊，他像只迅疾的燕子飞奔门外，同学们随即回应他的大呼小叫。不过目睹他们的快乐张扬，你的心在欢跳；窃以为，骄傲的财富绝不会给人带来欣喜，倾慕应该来自那些青春脉搏的活力四射。因为他们捧起来自圣父的雪花馈赠，并非显摆父母给予的财产继承，健康与天籁的得天独厚原本属于他们。



              2．“下雪了！”愚蠢的人在叹息，“唉呀！”他的呼吸变得如此滞重，似乎心有所雍；从死亡本质的惨白里，他不得不求助壁炉里烈火的熊熊温暖；那优裕的温柔乡愈来愈近，旋转着冲向赋以生命形式的骨骼，他害怕风中卷起的寒意彻骨，唯恐会摧毁他那孱弱不堪的肉体。噢，生存给予的快乐那么微不足道，人类无法逃脱死亡的恐惧仅仅证明，他，依然苟延残喘。

        3．“下雪了！”路途上行者发出感叹。“驾！”他策马加鞭，加快速度。风，在肆虐，但他难以听见风的尖利呼啸，只有刀子般扑面的疼痛；光，冲破风雪弥漫，他已看到前方；家，隐约在现。心灵相通的人儿，他能看见家里壁炉明净温暖，桌台已摆好，孩子们趴在妻子膝间玩耍，全家人都在焦急地等他。唯有蒙恩念想，才能减轻辛勤劳作的悲哀。我挚爱的亲人们呵，从主的祝福中获得安宁。

         4．“下雪了！”美女惊叹，“天呀，实在太美了！”她从镜中转身，窗外雪花飘落，宛若夏季第一朵玫瑰，她的脸上浮出笑意酒窝。恍惚中雪橇飞奔，还有豪华盛装舞会，红男绿女，欢歌浅笑，烟水繁华，柔情似水，打发那绵延不断的忧郁冬日。历尽风雨沧桑，希望之星黯淡，是否像那雪花融尽，倏忽不知所踪？不妨祈求上帝还有圣母赐予祝福！那才是未曾开启的醇美清泉。

        5．“下雪了！”寡妇哀叹，“哦，我的上帝！”她的叹息声声盖过了她的祷告。从她泪水浸泡的眼里，可以听见心在慢慢撕裂；她颧骨下陷，象征饥馑悲哀的呼号。在这个雪花飘落的冬夜，失去父亲的孩子向她伸手祈求面包。“万能的主，请哺食那些幼小寒鸦。”她仍然怀有希望，直到冰冷的壁炉落满恐惧，或者绝望，直到她将最后一片细柴投进炉腔。悲哀的母亲！唯独上帝才能洞悉你的苦难，雪花降临，那是穷人难以迈过的道道鬼门关。





        LESSON 13





RESPECT FOR THE SABBATH REWARDED


        尊重安息日

        1. In the city of Bath, not many years since, lived a barber who made a practice of following his ordinary occupation on the Lord’s day. As he was on the way to his morning’s employment, he happened to look into some place of worship just as the minister was giving out his text—“Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.” He listened long enough to be convinced that he was constantly breaking the laws of God and man by shaving and dressing his customers on the Lord’s day. He became uneasy, and went with a heavy heart to his Sabbath task.

        2. At length he took courage, and opened his mind to his minister, who advised him to give up Sabbath work, and worship God. He replied that beggary would be the consequence. He had a flourishing trade, but it would almost all be lost. At length, after many a sleepless night spent in weeping and praying, he was determined to cast all his care upon God, as the more he reflected, the more his duty became apparent[97].

        3. He discontinued his Sabbath work, went constantly and early to the public services of religion, and soon enjoyed that satisfaction of mind which is one of the rewards of doing our duty, and that peace which the world can neither give nor take away. The consequences he foresaw actually followed. His genteel[98] customers left him, and he was nicknamed “Puritan” or “Methodist.” He was obliged to give up his fashionable shop, and, in the course of years, became so reduced[99] as to take a cellar under the old market house and shave the poorer people.

        4. One Saturday evening, between light and dark, a stranger from one of the coaches, asking for a barber, was directed by the hostler to the cellar opposite. Coming in hastily, he requested to be shaved quickly, while they changed horses, as he did not like to violate[100] the Sabbath.This was touching the barber on a tender chord. He burst into tears; asked the stranger to lend him a half-penny to buy a candle, as it was not light enough to shave him with safety. He did so, revolving in his mind the extreme poverty to which the poor man must be reduced.

        5. When shaved, he said, “There must be something extraordinary in your history, which I have not now time to hear. Here is half a crown for you. When I return, I will call and investigate[101] your case. What is your name?” “William Reed,” said the astonished barber. “William Reed?” echoed the stranger: “William Reed? by your dialect[102] you are from the West.” “Yes, sir, from Kingston, near Taunton.” “William Reed from Kingston, near Taunton? What was your father’s name?” “Thomas.” “Had he any brother?” “Yes, sir, one, after whom I was named; but he went to the Indies, and, as we never heard from him, we supposed him to be dead.”



              6. “Come along, follow me,” said the stranger, “I am going to see a person who says his name is William Reed, of Kingston, near Taunton. Come and confront[103] him. If you prove to be indeed he who you say you are, I have glorious news for you. Your uncle is dead, and has left an immense fortune, which I will put you in possession of when all legal doubts are removed.”

        7. They went by the coach; saw the pretended William Reed, and proved him to be an impostor. The stranger, who was a pious attorney[104], was soon legally satisfied of the barber’s identity[105], and told him that he had advertised him in vain. Providence had now thrown him in his way in a most extraordinary manner, and he had great pleasure in transferring[106] a great many thousand pounds to a worthy man, the rightful heir of the property. Thus was man’s extremity[107] God’s opportunity[108]. Had the poor barber possessed one half-penny, or even had credit for a candle, he might have remained unknown for years; but he trusted God, who never said, “Seek ye my face,” in vain.


【中文阅读】

        1．前些年，巴斯城内有位理发匠，他一直保留星期日不休息、照常理发的习惯。一天，在他早晨去理发店的路上，他碰巧看见教徒做礼拜的一处地方，有位牧师正在分发布道经文，“别忘记安息日，请维护它的神圣”。他听了很久，终于相信自己所作所为确实违背了上帝与人类的法则，安息日里，他竟然还在为顾客打理胡须、修剪头发。想到这里，他心里变得纠结不安，反复琢磨安息日的道理。

        2．他终于鼓起勇气，向牧师袒露了他的忧虑。牧师建议他安息日向上帝祈祷，不要干活。他回答，如果不做生意的话，他就得到处去乞讨。他生意一向兴隆，周日不做活，他的生意可能会垮掉。经过不少辗转反侧的难眠之夜，不停地哭泣祷告，他最终决定全身心地信奉上帝，愈是反省，他愈感到他的职责至关重要。



        3．从此，每逢安息日，他不再干活，总是早起去参加公共宗教礼拜，不久，他便感到心灵的满足，这种满足来自履行宗教职责的馈赠，还有那份尘世既不能给予他、亦不能从其内心取走的安宁。他的预言很快得到应验，那些有教养的顾客不再光临他的理发店，他甚至还被封为“清教徒”、“卫道士”的绰号，被迫卖掉他那间时尚理发屋。随后岁月里，他生活日渐窘困，不得不租住在一家破旧市场地下室里，为穷人做点生意谋生。



              4．一个周六的晚上，天快擦黑了。一位从马车上下来的陌生人想要理发，原来，带客人来的人就是他理发店对面的马夫。匆忙走进小店后，客人一边将马缰递给马夫，一边催促理发匠尽快给他理发，他可不想破了安息日规矩。这句话，触动了理发匠心思，他不禁涕泗横流。原来屋里太黑，他唯恐做起活来不稳当，只有开口向客人先支借半便士买根蜡烛，客人照他的吩咐做了。理发匠贫困潦倒如此，让来客思忖良久。

        5．“你的经历肯定与众不同，”理发完毕后，客人说道：“我现在没有时间，先付你两个半便士，等会回来，我再找你好好聊聊。你叫什么名字？”“威廉 · 瑞德。”理发师告诉陌生人，心里有点吃惊。“威廉 · 瑞德？” 陌生人问道，“你的方言听起来，好像西边来的？”“不错，先生，我老家在陶顿旁边金斯敦。”“来自陶顿旁边金斯敦的威廉 · 瑞德，你父亲叫什么？”“托马斯。”“他有兄弟吗？”“有，先生，他有一个兄弟，在我洗礼后，他便去了西印度群岛，此后就再也没有音讯了，我们觉得他已经不在人世了。”

        6．“哎，先听我说，”陌生人说，“我正在找从金斯敦来的一个叫威廉 · 瑞德的人，不错，金斯敦确实离陶顿很近。倘若你能证实你所言不虚，我可有天大好事要告诉你。你的叔叔去世了，他留下一笔巨额遗产，你可以拥有这笔财产，当然你必须通过所有相关的法律认证。”

        7．两人坐马车赶回威廉 · 瑞德的家乡，见到了那个冒牌的威廉 · 瑞德，最后查明他是个骗子。原来，那位陌生人是位敬业的律师，他很快便获得了理发匠威廉 · 瑞德的合法身份证明，他还告诉理发匠自己曾登过广告寻找，最终一无所获。如今天遂人意，能将这份巨额财产交给值得拥有的人，一份财产的合法继承人，他感到非常高兴，这真是踏破铁鞋无觅处的天赐良机。倘若，当时那位贫困潦倒的理发匠手里还有半便士，如果不是一根蜡烛的诚信，或许接下来很多年，理发匠仍然默默无闻。他，相信上帝，而上帝将证明，“信任，永远不会徒劳。”





        LESSON 14





THE SANDS O’ DEE


        迪河沙滩

        Charles Kingsley (b.1819, d.1875) was born at Holne, Devonshire, England. He took his bachelor’s degree at Cambridge in 1842, and soon after entered the Church. His writings are quite voluminous, including sermons, lectures, novels, fairy tales, and poems, published in book form, besides numerous miscellaneous sermons and magazine articles. He was an earnest worker for bettering the condition of the working classes, and this object was the basis of most of his writings. As a lyric poet he has gained a high place. The “Saint’s Tragedy” and “Andromeda” are the most pretentious of his poems, and “Alton Locke” and “Hypatia” are his best known novels.





        1. “O Mary, go and call the cattle home,

         And call the cattle home,

         And call the cattle home,

         Across the sands o’ Dee!” [109]



        The western wind was wild and dank with foam,

         And all alone went she.





        2. The creeping tide came up along the sand,

         And o’er and o’er the sand,

         And round and round the sand,

         As far as eye could see;

        The blinding mist came down and hid the land—

         And never home came she.





        3. Oh, is it weed, or fish, or floating hair?—

         A tress o’ golden hair,

         O’ drowned maiden’s hair,

         Above the nets at sea.

        Was never salmon yet that shone so fair

         Among the stakes on Dee.





        4. They rowed her in across the rolling foam,

         The cruel, crawling foam,

         The cruel, hungry foam,

         To her grave beside the sea;

        But still the boatmen hear her call the cattle home,

         Across the sands O’ Dee.




【中文阅读】

        查尔斯 · 金斯利（1819～1875）生于英格兰德文郡霍恩。1842年在剑桥大学获学士学位，不久进入教会。他涉猎广泛，著述丰富，大多以书籍形式出版他的作品不仅囊括内容繁杂的大量宗教布道、杂志文章外，还有训诫文、演讲、小说、寓言以及诗歌。他致力献身于工人阶级的劳动条件改善，弱势阶层为他大多文章的关注焦点。作为抒情诗人，他在英国获得极高声誉。《圣徒的悲剧》和《安德洛墨达》不愧为他倾心创造的诗歌，而《奥尔登 · 洛克》、《希帕蒂娅》是他最为著名的小说。





        1．“哦，玛丽，去牛舍看看，

        去牛舍，唤唤牛儿，

        去那里，看看牛儿可在。”

        于是，她穿过迪河沙滩，

        寒风肆虐，浪花翻卷，

        她竟然，独自前往。





        2．潮水蠕动着，漫过沙滩，

        哗啦啦，一浪高过一浪，

        就那样，周而复始，

        远远望去，极目穷尽。

        浓密的雾霭，笼罩大地，

        她竟然，再也没有回来。





        3．哦，那是野草、鱼儿、丝带？

        或者，树的金色枝条？

        或者，闪烁迷人的鲑鱼，

        盘桓在，险恶的滩涂？

        天呀，那是溺水少女的头发，

        缠绕在，近海渔网的旁边；





        4．越过海浪，渔民的小船划近，

        波涛翻涌中，艰难穿行，

        嗜血的魔鬼，扑打过来，

        残忍地，将她无情吞没，

        依然听见，玛丽凄厉地呼喊，

        久久回荡，在迪河的沙滩。





        LESSON 15





SELECT PARAGRAPHS


        《圣经》节选

        1. O give thanks unto the Lord; call upon his name; make known his deeds among the people. Sing unto him; sing psalms unto him; talk ye of all his wondrous works. Glory ye in his holy name; let the heart of them rejoice that seek the Lord. Remember his marvelous[110] works that he hath done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth.

        2. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who hast set thy glory above the heavens. When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers; the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained[111]; what is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him? For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honor. Thou madest him to have dominion[112] over the work of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!

        3. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God; in him will I trust. Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name. He shall call upon me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honor him. With long life will I satisfy him, and show him my salvation.

        4. O come, let us sing unto the Lord, let us heartily rejoice in the strength of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and show ourselves glad in him with psalms. For the Lord is a great God, and a great King above all gods. O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness; let the whole earth stand in awe of him. For he cometh, for he cometh, to judge the earth; and with righteousness to judge the world, and the people with his truth.

        5. Oh that men would praise the Lord’ for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men! They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters; these see the works of the Lord, and his wonders in the deep. For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof. They mount up to the heaven; they go down again to the depths; their soul is melted because of trouble; they reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit’s end. Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses. He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still. Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven[113]. Oh that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!



              6. The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; he leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul; he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name’s sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; for thou art with me: thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies; thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over. Surely, goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.

        —Bible.




【中文阅读】

        1．哦，感谢尊贵的耶和华，呼唤它的名字；让其恩泽在世间流传；为你歌唱，为你呈献美好诗篇；传播你的奇妙功绩；赞叹你的神圣荣光；让信奉神的万民欣喜若狂；铭记你无所不能的作为；你摧枯拉朽的奇迹，以及金口烁言的判断。

        2．哦，耶和华，万民的上帝。你的圣名在世界每一个角落传诵。谁将你至高无上的荣光撒满天穹；抬头瞭望夜空，你遣命月转星移；那里留下你神迹的伟大。人是什么？你警觉着人的贪欲；你是否眷顾人的儿子圣子？你让他与天使般圣洁，你将荣誉与光耀的皇冠赐予他。你令他担当你的职责，让他具有俯瞰众生的从容和力量。哦，耶和华，万民的上帝。你的圣名在世界每一个角落传诵。

        3．我会谈论耶和华的神圣，你是我心灵的庇护和堡垒，我信任尊贵的上帝。因为，你将你的爱施加于我，我要传诵你的神圣，并永远景仰。你洞悉我的名字，并呼唤我，我要回应你的呼唤；与你一起度过艰难时世；我要传诵你的神圣，并景仰你。我将终生让你欢欣，向你袒露我灵魂的皈依。

        4．哦，来吧！让我们歌颂耶和华，让我们尽情地狂欢发自内心的拯救力量。让我们以感恩之情来到你的身边，用诗歌表达欢畅。耶和华伟大兹此，万神之神！我们以圣洁的美为你祈祷；让世界敬畏你的存在。耶和华降临于世，降临到这个世界，你以公义正直以及信任审判万物。

        5．哦，人们将讴歌耶和华的美德，讴歌你怜惜幼弱生命的温柔与悲悯！孩子们划着小船奔向大海，他们在经济大潮中不断沉浮，他们亲眼目睹耶和华的万能，你的超然力量。你翻云覆雨的手，才能搅起漫天的暴雨狂飙。孩子们在扭曲翻滚，倏忽升到半空，倏忽坠落沟壑，他们的灵魂得以熔炼。他们眩晕混沌奔波不止，他们步履蹒跚不明方向，仿佛站在世界尽头的悬崖边上。他们向耶和华哭诉苦难，你引导他们走出绝望。你使风暴平息，波涛不再涌翻，万籁俱静。暴风雨停息了，孩子们在欢笑，上帝照亮了他们梦中的天堂。哦，人们将赞叹上帝的慈善，你运筹帷幄以拯救迷途的羔羊。



              6．耶和华啊，你是我的牧羊人，须臾不能缺少。你吩咐我卧躺在绿色的牧场上；你指引我走向静穆的溪流，你让我的灵魂得以复苏；为了你的名誉，你带着我走向公平正义的道路。诚然，我走在死亡阴影笼罩下的山谷，但我决不惧怕魔鬼，因为上帝之光与我同在，还有你的威严和信仰，给我安慰。耶和华神，你在我的面前铺好台桌，我的敌人与我对视相望。你将圣油涂抹摩挲在我的头顶，圣杯悄然漫溢。是的，良知和怜悯将伴我走过一生；我将在你的宫殿生活，直到永远。





        ——《圣经》





        LESSON 16





THE CORN SONG


        玉米谣

        1. Heap high the farmer’s wintry hoard![114]



        Heap high the golden corn!

        No richer gift has Autumn poured

        From out her lavish[115] horn!





        2. Let other lands, exulting, glean

        The apple from the pine,

        The orange from its glossy green,

        The cluster from the vine;





        3. We better love the hardy gift

        Our rugged vales bestow,

        To cheer us, when the storm shall drift

        Our harvest fields with snow.





        4. Through vales of grass and meads[116] of flowers

        Our plows their furrows made,

        While on the hills the sun and showers

        Of changeful April played.





        5. We dropped the seed o’er hill and plain,

        Beneath the sun of May,

        And frightened from our sprouting grain

        The robber crows away.





        6. All through the long, bright days of June,

        Its leaves grew green and fair,

        And waved in hot midsummer’s noon

        Its soft and yellow hair.

        7. And now, with Autumn’s moonlit eves,

        Its harvest time has come;

        We pluck away the frosted leaves

        And bear the treasure home.



              8. There, richer than the fabled gift

        Apollo [117]showered of old,

        Fair hands the broken grain shall sift,

        And knead its meal of gold.





        9. Let vapid[118] idlers loll in silk,

        Around their costly board;

        Give us the bowl of samp[119] and milk,

        By homespun beauty poured!





        10. Where’er the wide old kitchen hearth

        Sends up its smoky curls,

        Who will not thank the kindly earth

        And bless our farmer girls!





        11. Then shame on all the proud and vain,

        Whose folly laughs to scorn

        The blessing of our hardy grain,

        Our wealth of golden corn!





        12. Let earth withhold her goodly root;

        Let mildew blight the rye,

        Give to the worm the orchard’s fruit,

        The wheat field to the fly:





        13. But let the good old crop adorn

        The hills our fathers trod;

        Still let us, for his golden corn,

        Send up our thanks to God!





        From Whittier’s “Songs of Labor”




【中文阅读】

        1．将农夫冬天的囤垛堆高，

        将金色玉米垛堆高！

        秋天流泻的丰收，无与伦比，

        来自大地慷慨的丰饶。



              2．无数双手，欢欣翻飞，

        将苹果，从树上摘下来；

        将柑橘，从翠叶中采下来；

        将葡萄，从藤蔓中剪下来。





         3．溪谷崎岖，山峦起伏，

        那耐寒植物，令人景仰，

        落雪成壅，悄然盖住，

        狂风不会刮走，良田庄稼。





        4．河谷青翠，铺满鲜花，

        划出深浅辙沟，坚硬铧犁，

        阳光照耀，风栉雨露，

        四月明媚，春风如煦如画。





        5．沟谷平原，人们播撒种子，

        希望蛰伏，初夏金色阳光，

        一片片，唰唰声中生长的绿芽，

        惊飞起，田野成群的乌鸦。





        6．六月烈日，炙热漫长，

        摇曳起，满地青春旗帜，

        仲夏月光下，波涛起伏，

        转眼间，换上金色盛装。





        7．秋天的月，黑夜孕育出，

        金秋的诞生，庄严隆重，

        将丰收果实，收获回家，

        留下，田野霜打的颓颜。





        8．比想象的馈赠，更为富足，

        阿波罗，带来光的神奇，

        苍老灵巧的双手，筛尽谷粒，

        揉捻成，霞光万道的晚餐。





              9．乏味无趣，那些慵懒之辈，

        衣着华美，佳肴云集，

        应当施舍，给穷人一碗米粥，

        古道热肠的质朴，让人流泪。





        10．何处寻找，古老宽敞的灶台？

        雾霭散去，袅袅炊烟飘来，

        难道不再祝福，仁慈大地，

        胼手砥足，我们农家女孩？





        11．骄傲虚妄，实在极端可耻，

        谁竟然，卖弄愚昧自夸，

        尽情嘲笑，农夫的辛勤劳作，

        还有黄澄澄的，地里庄稼！





        12．让大地留存，优异的良种，

        否则，霉菌病让黑麦绝收，

        蝇虫，在果园里肆虐成群，

        万亩良田，全被飞鸟糟蹋。





        13．亘古流传的种子，装扮自然，

        祖先土地，广袤的田野山峦，

        怀念上帝，点播下金色玉米，

        心存感激，至今口授相传。





        ——摘自惠蒂尔的《劳动之歌》





        LESSON 17





THE VENOMOUS WORM


        致命的虫豸

        John Russell (b. 1793, d. 1863) graduated at Middlebury College, Vt., in 1818. He was at one time editor of the “Backwoodsman,” published at Grafton, Ill., and later of the “Louisville Advocate.” He was the author of many tales of western adventure and of numerous essays, sketches, etc. His language is clear, chaste, and classical; his style concise, vigorous, and sometimes highly ornate.





        1. Who has not heard of the rattlesnake or copperhead? An unexpected sight of either of these reptiles[120] will make even the lords of creation recoil[121]; but there is a species of worm, found in various parts of this country, which conveys a poison of a nature so deadly that, compared with it, even the venom of the rattlesnake is harmless. To guard our readers against this foe of human kind is the object of this lesson.

        2. This worm varies much in size. It is frequently an inch in diameter, but, as it is rarely seen except when coiled, its length can hardly be conjectured. It is of a dull lead color, and generally lives near a spring or small stream of water, and bites the unfortunate people who are in the habit of going there to drink. The brute creation it never molests. They avoid it with the same instinct that teaches the animals of India to shun the deadly cobra.[122]

        3. Several of these reptiles have long infested[123] our settlements, to the misery and destruction of many of our fellow citizens. I have, therefore, had frequent opportunities of being the melancholy spectator of the effects produced by the subtile[124] poison which this worm infuses[125].

        4. The symptoms of its bite are terrible. The eyes of the patient become red and fiery, his tongue swells to an immoderate size, and obstructs[126] his utterance; and delirium[127] of the most horrid character quickly follows. Sometimes, in his madness, he attempts the destruction of his nearest friends.

        5. If the sufferer has a family, his weeping wife and helpless infants are not unfrequently the objects of his frantic fury. In a word, he exhibits, to the life, all the detestable passions that rankle[128] in the bosom of a savage; and such is the spell in which his senses are locked, that no sooner has the unhappy patient recovered from the paroxysm[129] of insanity occasioned by the bite, than he seeks out the destroyer for the sole purpose of being bitten again.



              6. I have seen a good old father, his locks as white as snow, his step slow and trembling, beg in vain of his only son to quit the lurking place of the worm. My heart bled when he turned away; for I knew the fond hope that his son would be the “staff of his declining years,” had supported him through many a sorrow.

        7. Youths of America, would you know the name of this reptile? It is called the WORM[130] OF THE STILL[131].


【中文阅读】

        约翰 · 拉塞尔（1793～1863），1818年毕业于美国佛蒙特州米德尔伯里学院。一度曾任伊利诺斯州格拉夫顿《蛮荒人》编辑，后为《路易斯维尔宣传者》编辑。他写过许多西部冒险小说，以及大量的散文随笔等等。他的语言清晰质朴，遣词造句传统典雅，文风简洁热情，有时过于文辞华丽。





        1．有人从没听说响尾蛇或一种头呈铜色的北美毒蛇？这两种虫豸，无论哪一种与你不期而遇，哪怕作为生物界主宰的人类亦会惊恐万分；不过，还有一种极为特异的蠕虫，这种蠕虫在美国不少地区业已相继发现，这种蠕虫分泌出某种致命的天然毒液，与其相比，响尾蛇对人的伤害委实是小巫见大巫。本文旨在指导读者如何预防来自人类敌人的伤害。

        2．这种蠕虫体形差异很大。通常其直径达到一英寸，但除非蠕虫盘绕成团，这种情形极为鲜见，因此蠕虫长度几乎难以估测。蠕虫呈暗铅色，通常盘踞在泉水或细小溪流附近，对前去饮水的人发动攻击。蠕虫从不攻击猛兽，与此同时，那些北美猛兽出于相同本能亦尽量避免与蠕虫接触，甚至知道如何避开致命的眼镜蛇。

        3．世界上存在好几种长期侵扰人类的爬行虫豸，它们给人们生命酿成不幸或导致灾难。这种蠕虫刺入人体哪怕极少或微量体液，亦会给人带来不可避免的悲剧。不幸的是，这类受害者对我来说，实在是司空见惯。

        4．遭受这种蠕虫叮咬的症状相当可怕。病人眼睛变红或炙热，舌头过度肿胀，发音模糊不清，随后出现可怕的谵妄症状，病人处于癫狂状态下，甚至有可能攻击周围亲朋好友。

        5．如果受害人有家小的话，他身边哭泣的妻子以及无助的孩子们不可避免地成为他狂暴状态下首选攻击的目标，这一惨绝人寰悲剧并非少见。 简而言之，受害人会向外界表达他野蛮内心的可怕暴怒，这种行为归咎于意识锁闭，即倘若由蠕虫咬噬引起精神错乱间断发作，这类病人一旦苏醒过来，他即刻会寻找下一个报复者，唯一目的在于，他希望再度遭受虫豸啮噬。



              6．我曾经见过一位心地仁慈的年迈父亲，他的鬓发几乎花白，他的步履蹒跚颤抖，却依然徒劳无助地为他唯一的儿子乞讨，希望儿子可以从这类蠕虫潜伏期症状中获得解脱。当他艰难地转身离开时，我的心在滴血，因为，我知道这美好的企盼，无外乎为他走过垂暮之年的唯一精神支柱，并已支撑他度过许多艰难厄苦。

         7．美国年轻人们，你知道这种爬行动物叫什么？它就是僵尸蠕虫。





        LESSON 18





THE FESTAL BOARD


        节日聚会

        1. Come to the festal[132] board tonight,

        For bright-eyed beauty will be there,

        Her coral lips in nectar steeped,

        And garlanded[133] her hair.





        2. Come to the festal board to-night,

        For there the joyous laugh of youth

        Will ring those silvery peals, which speak

        Of bosom pure and stainless truth.





        3. Come to the festal board to-night,

        For friendship, there, with stronger chain,

        Devoted[134] hearts already bound

        For good or ill, will bind again.

         I went.





        4. Nature and art their stores outpoured;

        Joy beamed in every kindling glance;

        Love, friendship, youth, and beauty smiled;

        What could that evening’s bliss enhance[135]?

         We parted.





        5. And years have flown; but where are now

        The guests who round that table met?

        Rises their sun as gloriously

        As on the banquet’s eve it set?





        6. How holds the chain which friendship wove?

        It broke; and soon the hearts it bound

        Were widely sundered[136]; and for peace,

        Envy and strife and blood were found.



              7. The merriest laugh which then was heard

        Has changed its tones to maniac screams,

        As half-quenched memory kindles up

        Glimmerings[137] of guilt in feverish dreams.

        8. And where is she whose diamond eyes

        Golconda’s [138]purest gems outshone?

        Whose roseate[139] lips of Eden breathed?

        Say, where is she, the beauteous one?





        9. Beneath yon willow’s drooping shade,

        With eyes now dim, and lips all pale,

        She sleeps in peace. Read on her urn,

        “A broken heart.” This tells her tale.





        10. And where is he, that tower of strength,

        Whose fate with hers for life was joined?

        How beats his heart, once honor’s throne?

        How high has soared his daring mind?





        11. Go to the dungeon’s gloom to-night;

        His wasted form, his aching head,

        And all that now remains of him,

        Lies, shuddering, on a felon’s[140] bed.





        12. Ask you of all these woes the cause?

        The festal board, the enticing[141] bowl,

        More often came, and reason fled,

        And maddened passions spurned[142] control.

        13. Learn wisdom, then. The frequent feast

        Avoid; for there, with stealthy tread

        Temptation walks, to lure[143] you on,

        Till death, at last, the banquet spread.





        14. And shun, oh shun, the enchanted [144]cup!

        Though now its draught like joy appears,

        Ere long it will be fanned by sighs,

        And sadly mixed with blood and tears.




【中文阅读】

        1．快来，参加今晚聚会，

        那美丽的，大眼睛姑娘要来，

        她珊瑚色嘴唇，浸透花蜜，

        头上戴着，芳香的花蕾。





        2．快来，参加今晚聚会，

        到处有，年轻人爽朗笑脸，

        月光下奏响，银铃般乐曲，

        讴歌纯净内心，不变信念。





        3．快来，参加今晚聚会，

        连结一条，友谊的纽带，

        憧憬的心，跳跃不停，

        无论未来如何，我们心心相印。





        4．天籁自然，袒露内心真诚，

        笑语欢歌，满面春风送迎，

        关爱叮咛，谱写难忘青春，

        祝福声声，挥手兹别壮行。





        5．岁月穿梭，依稀已非从前，

        分聚离散，陌路难得相见，

        星光闪烁，重逢已是不堪，

        是否记起，昨日笑容灿烂？





        6．何以维系，曾经友谊纽带？

        分道扬镳，畅怀交流不再，

        嫉妒冲突，甚至流血，

        寻觅安宁，难道竟是永远分开？





         7．开怀的笑声，重新荡漾，

         改弦易张， 恍然回眸拥抱，

        沉寂的内心，再次照亮，

        疯狂梦幻 ， 心灵深处罪孽。



              8．明眸生辉，那双迷人的眼睛，

        胜过世上，昂贵的钻石，

        芳唇轻启，玫瑰色诱人，

        消失何方？美丽从此不再。





        9．远方垂柳，撒下鬼魅阴影，

        眼神黯淡，沧桑已经老去，

        她亦安然睡下，墓志铭上写着：

        “破碎的心”，芳菲纷纷落尽。





        10．如今，他已抵达权力顶端，

        当初，她的命运与谁相连？

        他备受摧残，贪婪向往名利，

        他野心勃勃，梦寐平步登天。





         11．今晚，他将走进阴暗地牢，

        行尸走肉的躯体，头痛欲裂，

        孑然一身，感叹行只影单，

        不寒而栗，重温难醒的梦魇。





        12．倘若质疑，你所有的悲哀，

        不过归咎，聚会上的酒杯，

        时光买醉，毫无理由的失控，

        走火入魔，理智深陷昏睡。





         13. 究竟如何，更加睿智冷静，

        摒弃世俗，走马灯的诱惑，

        豪华盛筵， 夜夜笙歌不断，

        魑魅魍魉，早牵你进坟墓。





        14．躲开吧， 那施加魔咒的酒盅，

        杯空酒尽， 叹息人生无常，

        往日愧疚， 忘乎所以的虚妄，

        蓦然回首，难叙一把苍凉。





        LESSON 19





HOW TO TELL BAD NEWS


        如何告诉噩耗

        Mr. H. and the Steward.

        Mr. H. Ha! Steward, how are you, my old boy? How do things go on at home?

        Steward. Bad enough, your honor; the magpie’s dead.

        H. Poor Mag! So he’s gone. How came he to die?

        S. Overeat himself, sir.

        H. Did he? A greedy dog; why, what did he get he liked so well?

        S. Horseflesh, sir; he died of eating horseflesh,

        H. How came he to get so much horseflesh?

        S. All your father’s horses, sir.

        H. What! are they dead, too?

        S. Ay, sir; they died of overwork.

        H. And why were they overworked, pray?

        S. To carry water, sir.

        H. To carry water! and what were they carrying water for?

        S. Sure, sir, to put out the fire.

        H. Fire! what fire?

        S. O, sir, your father’s house is burned to the ground.

        H. My father’s house burned down! and how came it set on fire?

        S. I think, sir, it must have been the torches.

        H. Torches! what torches?

        S. At your mother’s funeral.

        H. My mother dead!

        S. Ah, poor lady! she never looked up, after it.

        H. After what?

        S. The loss of your father.

        H. My father gone, too?

        S. Yes, poor gentleman! he took to his bed as soon as he heard of it.

        H. Heard of what?

        S. The bad news, sir, and please your honor.

        H. What! more miseries! more bad news!

        S. Yes, sir; your bank has failed, and your credit is lost, and you are not worth a shilling in the world. I made bold, sir, to wait on you about it, for I thought you would like to hear the news.




【中文阅读】

        H先生和管家

        H先生：你好！管家，最近好吗？老伙计。家里都还好吗？

        管家： 实在太糟了，尊贵的主人，家里那只叫喜鹊的狗儿死了。

        H先生：可怜的狗儿，它竟然死了，怎么死的？

        管家： 它吃多了，先生。

        H先生：是吗？这条贪吃的狗。究竟怎么回事？它到底吃了什么？

        管家： 马肉，先生。它吃了太多的马肉。

        H先生：它怎么能吃这么多马肉？

        管家： 你父亲的马一只也没剩下，先生。

        H先生：怎么回事？父亲的马怎么死光了呢？

        管家： 唉！先生，那些马是干活累死的。

        H先生：它们为什么干那么多活？快说呀！

        管家： 它们要运水，先生。

        H先生：运水？为什么马儿要运水？

        管家： 没错，先生，家里失火了。

        H先生：失火？怎么回事？

        管家： 哦，先生，你父亲的房子烧光了。

        H先生：我父亲的房子烧光了！房子怎么会失火呢？

        管家： 我觉得，先生，应该是那些火把引起了火灾。

        H先生：火把？什么火把？

        管家： 你母亲葬礼上的火把。

        H先生：啊？我母亲去世了？

        管家： 哦，可怜的夫人！从那天之后，她压根没睁开眼过。

        H先生：什么之后？

        管家： 你父亲去世之后。

        H先生：天呀！我父亲也去世了？

        管家： 是的，可怜的先生！他听说那消息，就上床睡觉，也就再没能醒过来。

        H先生：究竟听到什么消息？

        管家：他听到了噩耗，先生，尊敬的主人。

        H先生：我的天呀！还有噩耗？？究竟有完没完的噩耗？

        管家：听好，先生。你的银行破产了，你的信用没有了，在这个世界上，如今，你不值一个子了。先生，我如此冒昧地等你回来，就是要告诉你这些事情，我原以为，你会乐意听到这些噩耗的。





        LESSON 20





THE BATTLE OF BLENHEIM


        布伦海姆战役

        Robert Southey (b. 1774, d. 1843) was born in Bristol, England. He entered Balliol College, Oxford, in 1793. In 1804 he established himself permanently at Greta Hall, near Keswick, Cumberland, in the “Lake Country,” where he enjoyed the friendship and society of Wordsworth and Coleridge, other poets of the “Lake School.” He was appointed poet laureate in 1813, and received a pension of ￡300 a year from the government in 1835. Mr. Southey was a voluminous writer in both prose and verse. As a poet, he can not be placed in the first rank, although some of his minor poems are very happy in thought and expression. Among his most noted poetical works are “Joan of Arc,” “Thalaba the Destroyer,” “Madoc,” “Roderick,” and the “Curse of Kehama.”





        1. It was a summer evening,

        Old Kaspar’s work was done,

        And he, before his cottage door,

        Was sitting in the sun;

        And by him sported on the green,

        His little grandchild Wilhelmine.





        2. She saw her brother Peterkin

        Roll something large and round,

        Which he beside the rivulet,

        In playing there, had found;

        He came to ask what he had found,

        That was so large, and smooth, and round.





        3. Old Kaspar took it from the boy,

        Who stood expectant by;

        And then the old man shook his head,

        And, with a natural sigh,

        “ ’T is some poor fellow’s skull,” said he,

        “Who fell in the great victory.





        4. “I find them in the garden,

        For there’s many hereabout;

        And often when I go to plow,

        The plowshare turns them out;

        For many thousand men,” said he,

        “Were slain in that great victory.”





        5. “Now tell us what ’t was all about,”

        Young Peterkin he cries;

        While little Wilhelmine looks up

        With wonder-waiting eyes;

        “Now tell us all about the war,

        And what they killed each other for.”





        6. “It was the English,” Kaspar cried,

        “Who put the French to rout,

        But what they killed each other for,

        I could not well make out;

        But everybody said,” quoth he,

        “That ’t was a famous victory:





        7. “My father lived at Blenheim then,

        Yon little stream, hard by;

        They burnt his dwelling to the ground,

        And he was forced to fly;

        So, with his wife and child he fled,

        Nor had he where to rest his head.





        8. “With fire and sword, the country round

        Was wasted, far and wide;

        And many a nursing mother then,

        And newborn baby died;

        But things like that, you know, must be

        At every famous victory.





        9. “They say it was a shocking sight

        After the field was won;

        For many thousand bodies here

        Lay rotting in the sun:

        But things like that, you know, must be

        After a famous victory.





        10. “Great praise the Duke of Marlboro’ won,

        And our young prince, Eugene.”

        “Why, ’t was a very wicked thing!”

        Said little Wilhelmine.

        “Nay, nay, my little girl!” quoth he,

        “It was a famous victory.

        11. “And everybody praised the Duke

        Who this great fight did win.”

        “But what good came of it at last?”

        Quoth little Peterkin.



              “Why, that I can not tell,” said he,

        “But ’t was a glorious victory.”





        Notes.—The Battle of Blenheim, in the “War of the Spanish Succession,” was fought August 13, 1704, near Blenheim, in Bavaria, between the French and Bavarians, on one Ride, and an allied army under the great English general, the Duke of Marlborough, and Eugene, Prince of Savoy, on the other. The latter won a decisive victory: 10,000 of the defeated army were killed and wounded, and 13,000 were taken prisoners.


【中文阅读】

        罗伯特 · 骚塞(1774～1843)出生于英格兰布里斯托尔。1793年，他考入牛津大学贝列尔学院。1804年，他在坎伯兰凯斯维克附近葛丽塔会所获得永久声誉。在“湖泊区”的坎伯兰，他与华兹华斯和柯勒律治以及其他一些“湖畔派”诗人来往密切，交情笃厚。 1813年他被授予“桂冠诗人”，1835年，开始接受政府提供的每年300英镑年金。骚塞先生著述颇丰，写有大量散文和诗歌。作为诗人，他或许不能荣忝一流，尽管他的某些短小篇幅诗歌在思想与艺术表达上相当成功。他最为著名的诗歌作品包括《天穹的琼》、《塞拉芭毁灭者》、《马多克》、《罗德里克》和《凯赫姆的诅咒》。





        1．一个夏天傍晚，

        老卡斯帕做完了农活，

        他坐在茅屋门口，

        残阳日落，身旁，

        他的孙女威廉明妮

        在草地上，尽情玩耍。





        2．她看见了哥哥彼得金，

        滚动一个又大又圆的东西，

        河边玩耍时，

        他把这东西带回家，

        忙不迭，让爷爷看，

        那圆圆光滑的东西。





        3．老人接过那东西，

        孩子站在旁边，好奇地等待，

        老人摇了摇头，

        发出一声长叹，



              “一个可怜家伙的脑瓜，”他说，

        “他在那次恶战中丧命。





        4．我在园子里看过，

        这附近，地里很多；

        我下田犁地，

        犁头常常翻出头颅，

        “好几千人啊，”他说，

        “在那次战役中阵亡。”





         5．“爷爷快告诉我，究竟怎么回事？”

        小彼得金央求爷爷，

        威廉明妮也抬头望着爷爷，

        孩子们神情急切，

        “爷爷，说说那次打仗，

        为什么，他们互相砍杀？”

        6． “那次英国佬，”卡斯帕说，

        “确实打败了法国佬，

        为什么，他们互相残杀，

        我还真的不知道，

        不过，人人都说，

        那次胜利可真是不得了。





        7．“当年，我父亲住在布伦海姆，

        那里有条小河，水流湍急，

        英国佬放火烧光我家房子，

        寸草不存，片瓦不留，

        父亲被迫离家出走，

        带着母亲，抱着我。





              8．“四面八方，火光混合枪声，

        遍地都是，焦土、尸体

        喂奶的母亲，

        怀抱出生就死去的孩子。

        可你们知道，战争就是那样，

        哪次，不是血流成河？





        9．“人们都说，景象悲惨，

        后来，法国人打回后，

        数千具尸体，七横八躺，

        阳光暴晒下，很快腐烂。

        可你们知道，战争就是那样，

        哪次，不是尸骨堆山？





        10．“人们盛赞，马尔伯勒公爵的战绩，

        还有，年轻王子尤金的胜利。”

        “为什么呢？杀人是邪恶的！”

        小威廉明妮开口说道。

        “噢，不，我的孩子，”老卡斯帕说，

        “那可是，一次了不起的胜利。”





        11．“每人都称赞公爵，

        他确实，赢得了战争。”

        “但，最终又有什么好处？”

        小威廉明妮问道。

        “为什么？我也不知道，”老卡斯帕嘟囔，

        “那可是，一次辉煌的胜利。”





        LESSON 21





“I PITY THEM”


        “我怜悯他们”

        1. A poor man once undertook to emigrate[145] from Castine, Me., to Illinois. When he was attempting to cross a river in New York, his horse broke through the rotten timbers of the bridge, and was drowned. He had but this one animal to convey all his property and his family to his new home.

        2. His wife and children were almost miraculously[146] saved from sharing the fate of the horse; but the loss of this poor animal was enough. By its aid the family, it may be said, had lived and moved; now they were left helpless in a land of strangers, without the ability[147] to go on or return, without money or a single friend to whom to appeal. The case was a hard one.





              3. There were a great many who “passed by on the other side.” Some even laughed at the predicament[148] in which the man was placed; but by degrees a group of people began to collect, all of whom pitied him.

        4. Some pitied him a great deal, and some did not pity him very much, because, they said, he might have known better than to try to cross an unsafe bridge, and should have made his horse swim the river. Pity, however, seemed rather to predominate[149]. Some pitied the man, and some the horse; all pitied the poor, sick mother and her six helpless children.

        5. Among this pitying party was a rough son of the West, who knew what it was to migrate some hundreds of miles over new roads to locate[150] a destitute[151] family on a prairie. Seeing the man’s forlorn situation, and looking around on the bystanders, he said, “All of you seem to pity these poor people very much, but I would beg leave to ask each of you how much.”

        6. “There, stranger,” continued he, holding up a ten dollar bill, “there is the amount of my pity; and if others will do as I do, you may soon get another pony. God bless you.” It is needless to state the effect that this active charity produced. In a short time the happy emigrant arrived at his destination[152], and he is now a thriving[153] farmer, and a neighbor to him who was his “friend in need, and a friend indeed.”


【中文阅读】

        1.从前，一位穷人率全家老小从缅因州卡斯廷准备移居到伊利诺斯州。在纽约州过河时，他家里的马撞断桥上已经朽烂的栅栏，不幸掉到河里淹死了。那淹死的马是全家唯一的运输工具，是驮运他家所有家产搬迁到新家的所有指望。

        2.很难相信，这家穷人的妻小最终从丢失马匹的绝望深渊中恢复过来，不过，马的损失本身够大。或许可以这么说，无论居住或者搬迁，马对这个处于迁徙状态中的家来说，毕竟举足轻重。如今，全家人在这块举目无亲的土地上求告无门，缺少盘缠无人可以求助。他们甚至没有办法决定是否继续前行，还是原路返回。当时境况的确非常糟糕。

        3.那时，还有大批移民逆向涌来，甚至有人嘲笑这家穷人手足无措的窘困。不过，慢慢地，有的人开始为这家人募捐，大家都很怜悯这不幸的一家人。

        4.有些人深深同情这一家庭，有些人却不以为然，他们觉得这家人早该清楚，不该从那条不安全的桥上过，或是让那匹马游过河。大家众说纷纭，七嘴八舌，最后，来往的移民队伍里还是怜悯同情占了上风。有的人同情那家人，有的人叹息那马；不过，那位贫穷体弱的母亲，以及她六个无助的孩子无不让人潸然泪下。



              5.人群中有位当地西部酋长的儿子，性格相当直率。他清楚在荒无人烟的大草原上跋涉数百英里，对两手空空的一家老小来说，意味着什么。目睹这家人的绝望无助，看到四周围观的人群，他高声说道：“看来，你们都非常同情这家遭难的人，我是否可以冒昧地问一下，你们每人能拿出多少钱？”

        6.“我们原本素昧平生，”他接着往下说，同时举起手里一张10美元的钞票，“这是我捐出的钱，如果有人像我一样，同样捐出10元钱的话，我马上送你一匹小马驹，上帝保佑你们！”不用说，当时募捐场面相当火暴，因为，那些迁入的新移民很快在当地定居落户；酋长儿子的农场昌盛兴旺，有幸作为他的邻居，大家如何不乐意结交这种可谓“患难之交见真情”的新朋挚友呢。





        LESSON 22





AN ELEGY ON MADAM BLAIZE


        布莱兹夫人的挽歌

        Oliver Goldsmith (b. 1728, d. 1774) was born at Pallas, or Pallasmore, in the parish of Forney, Ireland. He received his education at several schools, at Trinity College, Dublin, at Edinburgh, and at Leyden. He spent some time in wandering over continental Europe, often in poverty and want. In 1756 he became a resident of London, where he made the acquaintance of several celebrated men, among whom were Dr. Johnson and Sir Joshua Reynolds. His writings are noted for their purity, grace, and fluency. His fame as a poet is secured by “The Traveler,” and “The Deserted Village;” as a dramatist, by “She Stoops to Conquer;” and as a novelist, by “The Vicar of Wakefield.” His reckless extravagance always kept him in financial difficulty, and he died heavily in debt. His monument is in Westminster Abbey.





        1. Good people all, with one accord[154],

        Lament for Madam Blaize,

        Who never wanted a good word—

        From those who spoke her praise.





        2. The needy seldom passed her door,

        And always found her kind;

        She freely lent to all the poor—

        Who left a pledge[155] behind.





        3. She strove the neighborhood to please,

        With manner wondrous winning:

        She never followed wicked ways—

        Unless when she was sinning.





        4. At church, in silks and satin new,

        With hoop of monstrous size,

        She never slumbered in her pew—

        But when she shut her eyes.





        5. Her love was sought, I do aver,

        By twenty beaux and more;

        The king himself has followed her—

        When she has walked before.





        6. But now, her wealth and finery fled,

        Her hangers[156]-on cut short all,

        Her doctors found, when she was dead—

        Her last disorder mortal[157].





        7. Let us lament, in sorrow sore;

        For Kent Street well may say,

        That, had she lived a twelvemonth more—

        She had not died to-day.


【中文阅读】

        奥利弗 · 戈德史密斯（1728～1774）出生于爱尔兰帕拉斯，又称福尼教区帕拉斯茅。他在都柏林三圣学院、爱丁堡大学以及莱顿大学数处接受教育。在极端窘困的条件下，他曾游历整个欧洲大陆。1756年，戈德史密斯在伦敦定居，他结识了数位有名望的权威学者，包括约翰逊博士以及约书亚 · 雷诺先生。戈氏的作品纯净优雅，行文流畅。他兼诗人、剧作家和小说家于一身，其著名作品包括：诗歌《行旅者》和《被遗弃的村庄》，剧作《她向征服者臣服》，小说《韦克菲尔德教区牧师》。戈德史密斯挥金如土的生活让自己时常捉襟见肘，甚至死后亦留有大量债务。威斯敏斯特大教堂矗有他的纪念碑。





        1．善良的人，异口同声，

        哀悼，布莱兹夫人，

        生前，她不在意任何褒奖，

        尽管，他们发自内心称赞。





        2．穷人，很少从她的门前走过，

        她心地善良，济贫扶弱，

        她施舍众生，为人慷慨，

        借贷者，甚至只留下极少许诺。





        3．她竭尽所能，造福乡梓，

        心有谋略，变通灵活，

        她为人坦荡，不耍诡计，

        除非，偶尔难以顾及。





        4．教堂里，那些豪绅贵妇，

        绫罗绸缎，裙裾飘飞，

        她闭上眼睛，聆听诵经，

        却从不曾经，打盹走神。



        5．她追求者甚众，我敢断定，

        那些人百般追求，倾心思慕，

        她娉婷袅娜，走在街上，

        即便国王，亦趋尊随后。





        6．如今，她财富散尽美貌不再，

        那些追随者，日渐稀疏，

        待最后离世，医生才发现，

        她身体衰竭，难以挽救。





        7．悲哀深深，无以表述，

        那条肯特大街，或许见证，

        她多活一年，该有多好，

        否则不会遗憾，她走得太早。





        LESSON 23





KING CHARLES II AND WILLIAM PENN


        英王查尔斯二世与威廉·佩恩先生

        King Charles. Well, friend William! I have sold you a noble province in North America; but still, I suppose you have no thoughts of going thither yourself?

        Penn. Yes, I have, I assure thee, friend Charles; and I am just come to bid thee farewell.

        K.C. What! venture yourself among the savages of North America! Why, man, what security have you that you will not be in their war kettle in two hours after setting foot on their shores?

        P. The best security in the world.

        K.C. I doubt that, friend William; I have no idea of any security against those cannibals[158] but in a regiment[159] of good soldiers, with their muskets and bayonets. And mind, I tell you beforehand, that, with all my good will for you and your family, to whom I am under obligations, I will not send a single soldier with you.

        P. I want none of thy soldiers, Charles: I depend on something better than thy soldiers.

        K.C. Ah! what may that be?

        P. Why, I depend upon themselves; on the working of their own hearts; on their notions of justice; on their moral sense.

        K.C. A fine thing, this same moral sense, no doubt; but I fear you will not find much of it among the Indians of North America.

        P. And why not among them as well as others?

        K.C. Because if they had possessed any, they would not have treated my subjects so barbarously as they have done.

        P. That is no proof of the contrary, friend Charles. Thy subjects were the aggressors[160]. When thy subjects first went to North America, they found these poor people the fondest and kindest creatures in the world. Every day they would watch for them to come ashore, and hasten to meet them, and feast them on the best fish, and venison[161], and corn, which were all they had. In return for this hospitality of the savages, as we call them, thy subjects, termed Christians, seized on their country and rich hunting grounds for farms for themselves. Now, is it to be wondered at, that these much-injured people should have been driven to desperation by such injustice; and that, burning with revenge, they should have committed some excesses[162]?





              K C. Well, then, I hope you will not complain when they come to treat you in the same manner.

        P. I am not afraid of it.

        K.C. Ah! how will you avoid it? You mean to get their hunting grounds, too, I suppose?

        P. Yes, but not by driving these poor people away from them.

        K.C. No, indeed? How then will you get their lands?

        P. I mean to buy their lands of them.

        K.C. Buy their lands of them? Why, man, you have already bought them of me!

        P. Yes, I know I have, and at a dear rate, too; but I did it only to get thy good will, not that I thought thou hadst any right to their lands.

        K.C. How, man? no right to their lands?

        P. No, friend Charles, no right; no right at all: what right hast thou to their lands?

        K.C. Why, the right of discovery, to be sure; the right which the Pope and all Christian kings have agreed to give one another.

        P. The right of discovery? A strange kind of right, indeed. Now suppose, friend Charles, that some canoe load of these Indians, crossing the sea, and discovering this island of Great Britain, were to claim it as their own, and set it up for sale over thy head, what wouldst thou think of it?

        K.C. Why—why—why—I must confess, I should think it a piece of great impudence in them.

        P. Well, then, how canst thou, a Christian, and a Christian prince, too, do that which thou so utterly condemnest[163] in these people whom thou callest savages? And suppose, again, that these Indians, on thy refusal to give up thy island of Great Britain, were to make war on thee, and, having weapons more destructive than thine, were to destroy many of thy subjects, and drive the rest away—wouldst thou not think it horribly cruel?

        K. C. I must say, friend William, that I should; how can I say otherwise?

        P. Well, then, how can I, who call myself a Christian, do what I should abhor even in the heathen? No. I will not do it. But I will buy the right of the proper owners, even of the Indians themselves. By doing this, I shall imitate God himself in his justice and mercy, and thereby insure his blessing on my colony, if I should ever live to plant one in North America.

        —Mason L. Weems





        Notes.—Charles II. was king of England from A.D. 1660 to 1685. William Penn (b. 1644, d. 1718) was a noted Englishman who belonged to the sect of Friends. He came to America in 1682, and founded the province which is now the state of Pennsylvania. He purchased the lands from the Indians, who were so impressed with the justice and good will of Penn and his associates, that the Quaker dress often served as a sure protection when other settlers were trembling for their lives.


【中文阅读】

        英王查尔斯：哎，威廉老友！我把北美一处不错的地方交付于你，可是我觉得你根本不想去，对吗？



              佩恩：不，陛下，恰恰相反，我就是来和您道别的。

        英王查尔斯：天呀！你真敢与北美野蛮人厮混一起？呃，一旦你落脚北美海滩，不出两小时，一群土著就会刀斧鸣鼓地对你发动进攻，你如何保住自家性命？



        佩恩：那里才是世上最安全的地方。

        英王查尔斯：安全？威廉，我的朋友，就那些野蛮食人族来说，我完全不知道还有什么安全可言！除非你带上全副武装的军队！听着，我可事先奉告你，出于我的好意，以及我照顾你与你的家庭的责任，我绝对不会派一兵一卒随你去美洲。



        佩恩：我不需要您任何兵卒，查尔斯陛下，我希望不战而屈人之兵。

        佩恩：哎呀！怎么说？

        佩恩：嗯，我要指望他们自己；依赖他们的独立思考、他们的正义观念、包括他们自身道德感。

        英王查尔斯：不错，绝对无须怀疑这种高尚的道德感；可我担心在北美印第安人部落里，你或许难以找到什么道德感。

        佩恩：那么，为什么就道德感来说，他们不如其他民族？

        英王查尔斯：如果印第安人具备哪怕一点点道德意识，他们就不会那么野蛮地杀戮我的臣民了。

        佩恩：查尔斯，我的朋友，难道不存在恰恰相反的证据？陛下臣民才是入侵者，当初踏入那块美洲大地，他们发现，世界上没有人能比那些可怜的土著更温顺平和，待人友好。每天，土著人毫无例外地赶到海滩探望白人，给他们送上最好的鱼、鹿肉、玉米，倾其所有，供其充饥。为回报土著人的好客，正如我们所说的，那些被称为基督徒的陛下臣民，他们强占掠夺印第安人大片家园以及丰美猎场，建起他们自己的农场。如此看来，那些非正义行为使得大量遭受屠戮的土著人沦陷绝境，我们难道不觉惊诧莫名？陛下臣民采用烧杀抢掠手段报复印第安人，那些野蛮屠杀难道并不过分？

        英王查尔斯：好了，今后，土著人若以同样方法对付你，但愿你不要抱怨。

        佩恩：我可不会害怕。

        英王查尔斯：天呀！你怎样避免他们报复？我觉得，你不也想得到他们的狩猎场吗？

        佩恩：不错，我需要土地，不过不会把印第安人从他们的狩猎场上赶出去。

        英王查尔斯：确实如此？那你怎么得到他们的土地？



              佩恩：我打算从他们手中买土地。

        英王查尔斯：从他们手中买土地？哎呀，伙计。你应该是从我的手中买下那些土地吧！

        佩恩：我确实买了土地，价钱还相当高；为什么我这样做，无非考虑到陛下的仁慈，当然，我并不认为，您对印第安人的土地拥有任何权力。

        英王查尔斯：哎呀，伙计，难道我没有支配印第安人土地的权力？

        佩恩：是的，查尔斯，我的朋友，您没有权利，没有任何权力。您有什么权力可以支配那些土著人的土地？

        英王查尔斯：天呀，我有发现的权利，确切地说，罗马教皇和所有基督教国王无一不赞同相互之间给予的权力。

        佩恩：发现的权力？真是莫名其妙。不妨推想一下，查尔斯，我的朋友，假如这些印第安人乘独木舟漂洋过海，最终发现了大不列颠群岛，倘若他们宣称这岛屿属于他们，并在你眼皮底下将其标价出售，你将如何喙置？

        英王查尔斯：呃，呃，呃——我得承认，这实在有点太厚颜无耻了。

        佩恩：那么，好了，一位基督徒，堂堂的基督徒国王，你指控野蛮人最该受到谴责，却对你所称为野蛮的人做出同样最该谴责的事。再假设一下，倘若这些印第安人拒绝放弃你的大不列颠群岛，甚至对你进行开战，手中的武器比你的厉害，他们大规模屠戮你的臣民，再将你的臣民全部撵走，你难道不觉得这种行为恐怖残忍？

        英王查尔斯：威廉，我的朋友，我必须承认，我应该这么说，否则，我还该怎么说？

        佩恩：好了，既然这样，我怎么能，能说自己是基督徒？做那些我最憎恶的事，哪怕针对那些异教徒？不！我不会那样做。但我会从合法的拥有者手中购买权利，即便这些拥有者就是印第安人。通过购买的方式，我无非在效仿上帝本身的正义与悲悯，从而确保上帝佑福降临我管辖的领地，当然，如果，我能在北美洲活下来，先要种下一棵心愿之树。

        （梅森 · 爱尔 · 维姆斯）





        LESSON 24





WHAT I LIVE FOR


        我为什么而活

        1. I live for those who love me,

        Whose hearts are kind and true;

         For the heaven that smiles above me,

        And awaits my spirit, too;

         For all human ties that bind me,

         For the task my God assigned[164] me,

         For the bright hopes left behind me,

        And the good that I can do.





        2. I live to learn their story,

        Who suffered for my sake;

         To emulate[165] their glory,

        And follow in their wake[166];

         Bards, patriots, martyrs[167], sages[168],

         The noble of all ages,

         Whose deeds crown History’s pages,

        And Time’s great volume make.





        3. I live to hail[169] that season,

        By gifted minds foretold,

         When man shall live by reason,

        And not alone by gold;

         When man to man united,

         And every wrong thing righted,

         The whole world shall be lighted

        As Eden was of old.





        4. I live for those who love me,

        For those who know me true;

         For the heaven that smiles above me,



              And awaits my spirit, too;

         For the cause that needs assistance,

         For the wrongs that need resistance,

         For the future in the distance,

        And the good that I can do.


【中文阅读】

        1．我为那些爱我的人活着，

        那些人，心地善良无比真诚；

        我为天空里爽朗笑声活着，

        它们，似乎在等待我的魂灵。

        我为与生俱来的责任活着，

        为上帝赋予的神圣道义活着，

        为身后闪现的美丽光明活着，

        一生活着，我应该努力向善。





        2． 生活中，我已了解大爱的涵义，

        有人曾为我受尽磨难，

        发扬光大先哲的荣光，

        勇敢地追随前辈足迹，

        那些诗人爱国者、烈士和圣贤，

        无数英雄，彪炳千古，

        他们，大气凛然地走过，

        汇成波涛壮阔的历史长河。





        3．活着，我为那些季节欢呼，

        思索那些睿者的醒世恒言，

        人，需要理性地活着，

        绝不能沦为金钱的怪物；

        人与人应该和谐相处，

        遏制罪恶，张扬正义，

        地球将会阳光普照，

        伊甸园才能美好如初。



              4．我为那些爱我的人活着，

        我为了解我真诚的人活着，

        我为天空里爽朗笑声活着，

        它们，似乎在等待我的魂灵。

        活着，正义需要声张，

        活着，罪恶必须抵制。

        活着，未来就在前方，

        一生活着，我应该努力向善。





        LESSON 25





THE RIGHTEOUS NEVER FORSAKEN


        公正不会缺席

        1. It was Saturday night, and the widow of the Pine Cottage sat by her blazing fagots[170], with her five tattered children at her side, endeavoring by listening to the artlessness of their prattle[171] to dissipate[172] the heavy gloom that pressed upon her mind. For a year, her own feeble hand had provided for her helpless family, for she had no supporter: she thought of no friend in all the wide, unfriendly world around.

        2. But that mysterious Providence, the wisdom of whose ways is above human comprehension, had visited her with wasting sickness, and her little means had become exhausted. It was now, too, midwinter, and the snow lay heavy and deep through all the surrounding forests, while storms still seemed gathering in the heavens, and the driving wind roared amid the neighboring pines, and rocked her puny[173] mansion.

        3. The last herring smoked upon the coals before her; it was the only article of food she possessed, and no wonder her forlorn, desolate state brought up in her lone bosom all the anxieties of a mother when she looked upon her children: and no wonder, forlorn as she was, if she suffered the heart swellings of despair to rise, even though she knew that He, whose promise is to the widow and to the orphan, can not forget his word.

        4. Providence had many years before taken from her her eldest son, who went from his forest home to try his fortune on the high seas, since which she had heard no tidings of him; and in her latter time had, by the hand of death, deprived her of the companion and staff of her earthly pilgrimage[174], in the person of her husband. Yet to this hour she had upborne; she had not only been able to provide for her little flock, but had never lost an opportunity of ministering to the wants of the miserable and destitute.

        5. The indolent may well bear with poverty while the ability to gain sustenance[175] remains. The individual who has but his own wants to supply may suffer with fortitude[176] the winter of want; his affections are not wounded, his heart is not wrung. The most desolate in populous cities may hope, for charity has not quite closed her hand and heart, and shut her eyes on misery.

        6. But the industrious mother of helpless and depending children, far from the reach of human charity, has none of these to console her. And such a one was the widow of the Pine Cottage; but as she bent over the fire, and took up the last scanty remnant of food to spread before her children, her spirits seemed to brighten up, as by some sudden and mysterious impulse, and Cowper’s beautiful lines came uncalled across her mind:





         “Judge not the Lord by feeble sense.

        But trust him for his grace;

         Behind a frowning Providence

        He hides a smiling face.”





        7. The smoked herring was scarcely laid upon the table, when a gentle rap at the door, and the loud barking of a dog, attracted the attention of the family. The children flew to open it, and a weary traveler, in tattered garments and in apparently indifferent[177] health; entered, and begged a lodging and a mouthful of food. Said he: “It is now twenty-four hour’s since I tasted bread.” The widow’s heart bled anew, as under a fresh complication[178] of distresses; for her sympathies[179] lingered not around her fireside. She hesitated not even now; rest, and a share of all she had, she proffered[180] to the stranger. “We shall not be forsaken,” said she, “or suffer deeper for an act of charity.”

        8. The traveler drew near the board, but when he saw the scanty fare, he raised his eyes toward heaven with astonishment: “And is this all your store?” said he; “and a share of this do you offer to one you know not? then never saw I charity before! But, madam,” said he, continuing, “do you not wrong your children by giving a part of your last mouthful to a stranger?”

        9. “Ah,” said the poor widow—and the tear-drops gushed into her eyes as she said it—“I have a boy, a darling son, somewhere on the face of the wide world, unless Heaven has taken him away, and I only act toward you as I would that others should act toward him. God, who sent manna[181] from heaven, can provide for us as he did for Israel; and how should I this night offend him, if my son should be a wanderer, destitute as you, and he should have provided for him a home, even poor as this, were I to turn you unrelieved away!”

        10. The widow ended, and the stranger, springing from his seat, clasped her in his arms. “God indeed has provided your son a home, and has given him wealth to reward the goodness of his benefactress: my mother! oh, my mother!” It was her long lost son, returned to her bosom from the Indies. He had chosen that disguise that he might the more completely surprise his family; and never was surprise more perfect, or followed by a sweeter cup of joy.


【中文阅读】

        1．一个周六的夜晚，一座松木搭建的小屋里，一位寡妇坐在燃烧的火堆旁，五个衣衫褴褛的孩子依偎在她的身边。她强打精神，听着周围咿呀吵闹，孩子们不谙人世的纯真，或许消散她内心些许沉重阴霾。一年来，她用羸弱的双手独自撑起这个呼告无门的家。在这个偌大寒冷的世界上，她举目无亲，无所可依。



              2．然而，天意神秘不可知。那位超越人类认知的睿者，目睹了她的病弱之躯，她那微薄家产逐渐消耗殆尽。适逢仲冬，四周森林莽野，雪下得很大，很厚，暴风雪仍在天空不断聚集，狂风在松林里呼啸翻卷，摇撼着她和她的孩子那间可怜的木屋。

        3．最后一条鲱鱼在她面前炉火上燎起轻烟，那是她仅剩的最后一点食物。毫不奇怪，她看着玩耍的孩子们，一丝绝望情绪在她无助的内心蔓延，那是一个母亲的呼救无门；毋庸多说，她倍感孤独，尽管她明白，对一户孤儿寡母来说，上帝不会忘记它的诺言，她还是感觉到最后的绝望在她心底慢慢隆起，隆起那道彻骨的冰凉。

        4．很多年前，上帝带走了她的大儿子。那年，他离开了森林里的家，去海上淘金。从那以后，母亲再亦没有听到他的音讯；随后，死亡之神最终夺去她的丈夫——她世俗生活中的伴侣以及家庭支柱。即便那时，她仍然还有支撑下去的信念，她静心地照料她的孩子们，亦从未错过任何机会对更为贫困潦倒的人伸出援手。

        5．懒惰很可能和贫穷与生俱来，但维持生存能力依然还在，唯有那些给予奉献的个体，坚韧不拔地面对物质的极度匮乏，从而饱经尘世苦难；她的钟爱不会受伤，她的心灵亦不会榨干。在人口稠密的喧嚣城市，最为孤独的人或许心怀希望，因为慈善的人会向她打开心灵之窗，慈善的人不会对她的悲惨熟视无睹。

        6．然而，这位勤劳无助而依赖孩子的母亲，远离人间行善，亦未曾接受任何仁慈，以安慰她那颗饱经苍凉的心。一位松树木屋里的寡母，当她弯身从火堆里拿出家里仅存的食物，分给面前嗷嗷待哺的孩子，她的心情似乎略微轻松，仿佛某种突如其来的神秘感召，库柏的优美诗句蓦然在她的心头响起：





        不要用你微弱感知判断上帝，

        相信他的宽宏慈悲，

        一个蹙眉的上帝身后，

        它藏匿了自己笑脸。





        7．烟熏的鲱鱼刚刚放到桌上，门上响起轻轻的叩门声，狗的大声吠叫，吸引了全家人目光。孩子们飞快跑过去打开门，一位衣着褴褛的过路人走进屋，他面色疲惫，神情淡然，祈求主人能否给他安顿住处，再给他点吃的东西。他说，“我已经一天一夜没吃一点东西了。”那位母亲的心突然又揪痛起来，新的困厄到来更是雪上加霜；毕竟，她的同情心不会让她无动于衷地坐在火堆边，哪怕现在，也不会犹豫不决。她请陌生人和全家一起分享食物。她对他说，“哪怕付出的善行再小，我们亦不该被上帝抛弃或者遭难更多。”



              8．那位来客走近桌子，看见桌上那丁点食物，他仰起头惊讶地问，“所有食物就这些？难道你还愿意与陌生人分享？这是我未曾见过的慈悲！不过，夫人，”他说，“给陌生人哪怕一口吃的，难道不委屈你的孩子们吗？”

        9．“哎，”那位寡母叹了口气，泪如泉涌，“我有个儿子，伶俐可爱，只有圣父才能将他带走，他现在一定还活在这世上某个地方。我为你做这点事，就是指望别人亦能这样善待他。我的上帝，谁能从天上为我们孤儿寡母带回他的恩赐，就像他当年赐予以色列人那样？假如我的孩子也在流浪，和你一样无助无望，他也该有个地方可以过夜，风寒抵御，哪怕和我们这间小屋如此简陋，如果我拒绝落难中的你，我怎能指望别人亦能为他做点什么！”

        10．那位寡母刚说完，陌生人“腾”地一声站起，将她揽进怀里，“上帝确实为你的儿子准备了住所，并且赐予他财富，以报答母亲的养育之恩，妈妈！噢，我的妈妈！”原来，这位陌生人正是寡妇失去音讯很久的儿子。他刚从印度群岛返回，原本想给全家一个惊喜，才装扮成过路人进屋打听。这真是让全家人意想不到的天大惊喜，随后，狭小木屋顿时变成一片欢乐的海洋。





        LESSON 26





ABOU BEN ADHEM


        阿博·本·艾德汉姆

        James Henry Leigh Hunt (b. 1784, d. 1859) was the son of a West Indian, who married an American lady, and practiced law in Philadelphia until the Revolution; being a Tory, he then returned to England, where Leigh Hunt was born. The latter wrote many verses while yet a boy, and in 1801 his father published a collection of them, entitled “Juvenilia.” For many years he was connected with various newspapers, and, while editor of the “Examiner,” was imprisoned for two years for writing disrespectfully of the prince regent. While in prison he was visited frequently by the poets Byron, Moore, Lamb, Shelley, and Keats; and there wrote “The Feast of the Poets,” “The Descent of Liberty, a Mask,” and “The Story of Rimini,” which immediately gave him a reputation as a poet. His writings include various translations, dramas, novels, collections of essays, and poems.





        1.ABOU BEN ADHEM (may his tribe increase!)

        Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace,

        And saw within the moonlight in his room,

        Making it rich and like a lily in bloom,

        An angel writing in a book of gold.





        2.Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhem bold;

        And to the presence in the room he said,

        “What writest thou?” The vision raised its head,

        And, with a look made of all sweet accord,

        Answered, “The names of those who love the Lord.”





        3.“And is mine one?” said Abou. “Nay, not so,”

         Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low,

         But cheerly still; and said, “I pray thee, then,

         Write me as one that loves his fellow-men.”





        4.The angel wrote, and vanished. The next night

         It came again, with a great wakening light,

         And showed the names whom love of God had blessed;

         And, lo! Ben Adhem’s name led all the rest.





        NOTE.—The above selection is written in imitation of an oriental fable.



                              [1]1 Petition, a formal request.



                      [2]2 Articulate, to utter the elementary sounds.



                      [3]Modulate, to vary or inflect.



                      [4]Monotony, lack of variety.



                      [5]Affected, unnatural and silly.



                      [6]Drafted, selected by lot.



                      [7]Concise, brief and full of meaning.



                      [8]Discharge, release.



                      [9]Dictate, to utter so that another may write it down.



                      [10]Distinction, honorable and notable position.



                      [11]Express, to make known the feelings of.



                      [12]Rift, a narrow opening, a cleft.



                      [13]Swayed,swung.



                      [14]Height, an elevated place.



                      [15]Petals, the colored leaves of a flower.



                      [16]Chalice, a cup or bowl.



                      [17]Bonny, beautiful.



                      [18]Vicinity, neighborhood.



                      [19]Unobtrusively, not noticeably, modestly.



                      [20]Repulsive, repelling, forbidding.



                      [21]Potent, powerful, effective.



                      [22]Host, one from whom another receives food, lodging, or entertainment.



                      [23]Peremptory, commanding, decisive.



                      [24]Availed, was of use, had effect.



                      [25]Ally, a confederate, one who unites with another in some purpose.



                      [26]Tense, strained to stiffness, rigid.



                      [27]Relaxed, loosened.



                      [28]Chiding, scolding, rebuking.



                      [29]Crotchet, a perverse fancy, a whim.



                      [30]Instanced, mentioned as an example.



                      [31]Hale, healthy.



                      [32]Manteltree, shelf over a fireplace.



                      [33]Plodded, went slowly.



                      [34]Heaving, rising and falling.



                      [35]Factotum, a person employed to do all kinds of work.



                      [36]Indispensable, absolutely necessary.



                      [37]Perpetually, continually.



                      [38]Centiped, an insect with a great number of feet.



                      [39] Economize, to save.



                      [40]Dispatch, diligence, haste.



                      [41]Penstock, a wooden tube for conducting water.



                      [42]Chores, the light work of the household either within or without doors.



                      [43]Sauntering, wandering idly, strolling.



                      [44]Snicker, to laugh in a half-suppressed manner.



                      [45]Crest, a tuft growing on an animal’s head.



                      [46]Divinely, in a supreme degree.



                      [47]Moral, the practical lesson which anything is fitted to teach.



                      [48]Languished, suffered, sank away.



                      [49]Impostor, a deceiver.



                      [50]Aversion, dislike.



                      [51]Indulge, to give way to.



                      [52]Pound, a British denomination of money equal in value to about $4.86.



                      [53]Application, the act of making a request.



                      [54]Consternation, excessive terror, dismay.



                      [55]Principle, a right rule of conduct.



                      [56]Artificial, made by art, not real.



                      [57]Intolerably, in a manner not to be borne.



                      [58]Summons, a call to appear.



                      [59]Experience, knowledge gained by actual trial.



                      [60]Integrity, honesty.



                      [61]Legacy, a gift, by will, of personal property.



                      [62]Mesh, network.



                      [63]Rife, abounding.



                      [64]Stagnant, inactive.



                      [65]Torpor, laziness, stupidity.



                      [66]Lolls, reclines, leans



                      [67]Exterior, outward appearance.



                      [68]Depicted, painted, represented.



                      [69]Contemplation, continued attention of the mind to one subject.



                      [70]Revenues, the annual income from taxes, public rents, etc.



                      [71]Scrupulously, carefully.



                      [72]Assiduous, constant in attention.



                      [73]Finance, the income of a ruler or a state.



                      [74]Deficit, lack, want.



                      [75]Ducat, a gold coin worth about $2.00.



                      [76]Defaulter, one who fails to account for public money intrusted to his care.



                      [77]Obviously, plainly.



                      [78]Injunction, a command.



                      [79]Genial, cheerful.



                      [80]Haunts, places frequently visited.



                      [81]Considerately, with due regard to others, kindly thoughtful.



                      [82]Appealingly, as though asking for aid.



                      [83]Modified, qualified, lessened.



                      [84]Proprieties, fixed customs or rules of conduct.



                      [85]Absorbing, engaging the attention entirely.



                      [86]Hassock, a raised mound of turf.



                      [87]Anticipate, to take before the proper time.



                      [88]Achievement, performance, deed.



                      [89]Trow, to think, to believe.



                      [90]Trappings, ornaments.



                      [91]Imbecile, one who is feeble either in body or mind.



                      [92]Intervened, were situated between.



                      [93]Musing, thinking in an absent-minded way.



                      [94]Conquests, triumphs, successes.



                      [95]Tintings, slight colorings.



                      [96]Stifled, choked, suppressed.



                      [97] Apparent, clear, plain.



                      [98]Genteel, fashionable, elegant.



                      [99] Reduced, brought to poverty.



                      [100]Violate, to break, to profane.



                      [101]Investigate, to inquire into with care.



                      [102]Dialect, a local form of speech.



                      [103]Confront, to face, to stand before.



                      [104]Attorney, a lawyer.



                      [105]Identity, the condition of being the same as something claimed.



                      [106]Transferring, making over the possession of.



                      [107]Extremity, greatest need.



                      [108]Opportunity, favorable time.



                      [109]The Sands O’ Dee. The Dee is a river of Scotland, noted for its salmon fisheries. O’ is a contraction for of, commonly used by the Scotch.



                      [110]Marvelous, wonderful.



                      [111]Ordained, appointed, established.



                      [112]Dominion. supreme power.



                      [113]Haven, a harbor, a place where ships can lie in safety.



                      [114]Hoard, a large quantify of anything laid up.



                      [115]Lavish. profuse.



                      [116]Meads, meadows.



                      [117] According to the ancient fable, Apollo, the god of music, sowed the isle of Delos, his birthplace, with golden flowers, by the music of his lyre.



                      [118]Vapid, spiritless, dull.



                      [119]Samp, bruised corn cooked by boiling.



                      [120]Reptiles, animals that crawl, as snakes, lizards, etc.



                      [121]Recoil, to start back, to shrink from.



                      [122]Cobra, a highly venomous reptile inhabiting the East Indies.



                      [123]Infested, troubled, annoyed.



                      [124]Subtile, acute, piercing.



                      [125]Infuses, introduces.



                      [126]Obstructs, hinders.



                      [127]Delirium, a wandering of the mind.



                      [128]Rankle, to rage.



                      [129]Paroxysm, a fit, a convulsion.



                      [130]Worm, a spiral metallic pipe used in distilling liquors.



                      [131]Still, a vessel used in distilling or making liquors.



                      [132]Festal, mirthful, joyous.



                      [133]Garlanded, adorned with wreaths of flowers.



                      [134]Devoted, solemnly set apart.



                      [135]Enhance, increase.



                      [136]Sundered, separated.



                      [137]Glimmerings, faint views, glimpses.



                      [138]Golconda, is an ancient city and fortress of India, formerly renowned for its diamonds. They were merely cut and polished there, however, being generally brought from Parteall, a city farther south.



                      [139]Roseate, blooming, rosy.



                      [140]Felon, a public criminal.



                      [141]Enticing, attracting to evil.



                      [142]Spurned, rejected with disdain.



                      [143]Lure, to attract, to entice.



                      [144]Enchanted, affected with enchantment, bewitched.



                      [145]Emigrate, to remove from one country or state to another for the purpose of residence, to migrate.



                      [146]Miraculously, as if by miracle, wonderfully.



                      [147]Ability, power, capability.



                      [148]Predicament, condition, plight.



                      [149]Predominate, to prevail, to rule.



                      [150]Locate, to place.



                      [151]Destitute, needy, poor.



                      [152]Destination, end of a journey.



                      [153]Thriving, prosperous through industry, economy, and good management.



                      [154]Accord, agreement of opinion, consent.



                      [155]Pledge, personal property delivered to another as a security for a debt.



                      [156]Hangers-on, followers.



                      [157]Mortal, destructive to life.



                      [158]Cannibals, human beings that eat human flesh.



                      [159]Regiment, a body of troops, consisting usually of ten companies.



                      [160] Aggressors, those who first commence hostilities.



                      [161]Venison, the flesh of deer.



                      [162] Excesses, misdeeds, evil acts.



                      [163]Condemnest, censure, blame.



                      [164]Assigned, allotted, marked out.



                      [165]Emulate, to strive to equal or excel, to rival.



                      [166]Wake, the track left by a vessel in the water, hence, figuratively, in the train of. Bard, a poet.



                      [167]Martyr, one who sacrifices what is of great value to him for the sake of principle.



                      [168]Sage, a wise man.



                      [169] Hail, to salute.



                      [170]Fagots. bundles of sticks used for fuel.



                      [171]Prattle, trifling talk.



                      [172]Dissipate, to scatter.



                      [173]Puny, small and weak.



                      [174]Pilgrimage, a journey.



                      [175]Sustenance, that which supports life.



                      [176]Fortitude, resolute endurance.



                      [177]Indifferent, neither very good nor very bad.



                      [178]Complication, entanglement.



                      [179]Sympathies, compassion.



                      [180] Proffered, offered to give.



                      [181]Manna, food miraculously provided by God for the Israelites.





【中文阅读】

        詹姆斯 · 亨利 · 李 · 亨特（1784～1859）为西部印第安人的儿子，他的父亲与一位美国妇女结婚，曾在费城从事律师工作，直到美国独立战争爆发。由于父亲身为保守党员，因此他回到英国，不久，他的儿子李•亨特呱呱坠地。孩童时期，李 · 亨特已经写有大量散文。1801年，父亲出版了一本题为《少年读物》的父子合集。多年来，李 · 亨特与各类报刊交往密切，作为《检查者》的报纸编辑，由于发表对亲王不满的文章，他被囚禁监狱两年。关押期间，诗人拜伦、摩尔、兰姆、雪莱以及济慈经常前来拜访他。在监狱里，他完成了他的《诗人的盛宴》、《自由的变味，面具》和《里米尼的故事》，这些作品迅速奠定了他的诗坛地位。李 · 亨特写作题材广泛，包括各类翻译、戏剧、小说、散文集以及诗歌。





        1．阿博 · 本 · 艾德汉姆 （祝愿他的部落壮大！）

        深夜，从香甜的梦中醒来，

        屋内，月色如水，

        光华耀眼，宛如百合盛开，

        有位天使，在金灿灿的书上誊写。





        2．祥云环绕，四周静寂无声，

        他不免打消怯意，上前问道，

        “你在写什么？” 幻影抬头，

        声音柔和，巧笑嫣然：

        “我在抄写，信奉上帝的名单。”





        3．“有我吗？”阿博又问。“哦，没有。”

        顿时，阿博语调有点凄然，

        但依然快乐，“那，我为你祈祷，

        把我记成，热爱同胞的人吧。”





        4．天使写毕隐去，翌日夜晚，

        再度降临，带来恢弘光明，

        照亮那些，上帝赐予的爱意，

        瞧，本 · 艾德汉姆的名字熠熠生辉！





        LESSON 27





LUCY FORESTER[1]




        露西·福斯特

        John Wilson (b. 1785, d. 1854), better known as “Christopher North,” was a celebrated author, poet, and critic, born at Paisley, Scotland, and educated at the University of Glasgow and at Oxford. In 1808 he moved to Westmoreland, England, where he formed one of the “Lake School” of poets. While at Oxford he gained a prize for a poem on “Painting, Poetry, and Architecture.” In 1820 he became Professor of Moral Philosophy in the University of Edinburgh, which position he retained until 1851. He gained his greatest reputation as the chief author of “Noctes Ambrosianae,” essays contributed to Blackwood’s Magazine between 1822 and 1825. Among his poems may be mentioned “The Isle of Palms” and the “City of the Plague,” This selection is adapted from “The Foresters,” a tale of Scottish life.





        1. Lucy was only six years old, but bold as a fairy; she had gone by herself a thousand times about the braes[2], and often upon errands to houses two or three miles distant. What had her parents to fear? The footpaths were all firm, and led to no places of danger, nor are infants themselves incautious when alone in then pastimes[3]. Lucy went singing into the low woods, and singing she reappeared on the open hillside. With her small white hand on the rail, she glided along the wooden bridge, or tripped from stone to stone across the shallow streamlet.

        2. The creature would be away for hours, and no fear be felt on her account by anyone at home; whether she had gone, with her basket on her arm, to borrow some articles of household use from a neighbor, or, merely for her own solitary delight, had wandered off to the braes to play among the flowers, coming back laden with wreaths and garlands.

        3. The happy child had been invited to pass a whole day, from morning to night, at Ladyside (a farmhouse about two miles off) with her playmates the Maynes; and she left home about an hour after sunrise.

        4. During her absence, the house was silent but happy, and, the evening being now far advanced, Lucy was expected home every minute, and Michael, Agnes, and Isabel, her father, mother, and aunt, went to meet her on the way. They walked on and on, wondering a little, but in no degree alarmed till they reached Ladyside, and heard the cheerful din of the children within, still rioting[4] at the close of the holiday. Jacob Mayne came to the door, but, on their kindly asking why Lucy had not been sent home before daylight was over, he looked painfully surprised, and said that she had not been at Ladyside.



              5. Within two hours, a hundred persons were traversing the hills in all directions, even at a distance which it seemed most unlikely that poor Lucy could have reached. The shepherds and their dogs, all the night through, searched every nook, every stony and rocky place, every piece of taller heather[5], every crevice that could conceal anything alive or dead: but no Lucy was there.

        6. Her mother, who for a while seemed inspired[6] with supernatural[7] strength, had joined in the search, and with a quaking heart looked into every brake[8], or stopped and listened to every shout and halloo reverberating[9] among the hills, intent[10] to seize upon some tone of recognition or discovery. But the moon sank; and then the stars, whose increased brightness had for a short time supplied her place, all faded away; and then came the gray dawn of the morning, and then the clear brightness of the day,—and still Michael and Agnes were childless.

        7. “She has sunk into some mossy or miry place,” said Michael, to a man near him, into whose face he could not look, “a cruel, cruel death to one like her! The earth on which my child walked has closed over her, and we shall never see her more!”

        8. At last, a man who had left the search, and gone in a direction toward the highroad, came running with something in his arms toward the place where Michael and others were standing beside Agnes, who lay, apparently exhausted almost to dying, on the sward. He approached hesitatingly; and Michael saw that he carried Lucy’s bonnet, clothes, and plaid[11].

        9. It was impossible not to see some spots of blood upon the frill that the child had worn around her neck. “Murdered! murdered!” was the one word whispered or ejaculated[12] all around; but Agnes heard it not; for, worn out by that long night of hope and despair, she had fallen asleep, and was, perhaps, seeking her lost Lucy in her dreams.

        10. Isabel took the clothes, and, narrowly inspecting them with eye and hand, said, with a fervent voice that was heard even in Michael’s despair, “No, Lucy is yet among the living. There are no marks of violence on the garments of the innocent; no murderer’s hand has been here. These blood spots have been put here to deceive. Besides, would not the murderer have carried off these things? For what else would he have murdered her? But, oh! foolish despair! What speak I of ? For, wicked as the world is—ay! desperately wicked—there is not, on all the surface of the wide earth, a hand that would murder our child! Is it not plain as the sun in the heaven, that Lucy has been stolen by some wretched gypsy beggar?”

        11. The crowd quietly dispersed, and horse and foot began to scour[13] the country. Some took the highroads, others all the bypaths, and many the trackless hills. Now that they were in some measure relieved from the horrible belief that the child was dead, the worst other calamity seemed nothing, for hope brought her back to their arms.



              12. Agnes had been able to walk home to Bracken-Braes, and Michael and Isabel sat by her bedside. All her strength was gone, and she lay at the mercy of the rustle of a leaf, or a shadow across the window. Thus hour after hour passed, till it was again twilight. “I hear footsteps coming up the brae,” said Agnes, who had for some time appeared to be slumbering; and in a few moments the voice of Jacob Mayne was heard at the outer door.

        13. Jacob wore a solemn expression of countenance, and he seemed, from his looks, to bring no comfort. Michael stood up between him and his wife, and looked into his heart. Something there seemed to be in his face that was not miserable. “If he has heard nothing of my child,” thought Michael, “this man must care little for his own fireside.” “Oh, speak, speak,” said Agnes; “yet why need you speak? All this has been but a vain belief, and Lucy is in heaven.”

        14. “Something like a trace of her has been discovered; a woman, with a child that did not look like a child of hers, was last night at Clovenford, and left it at the dawning.” “Do you hear that, my beloved Agnes?” said Isabel; “she will have tramped away with Lucy up into Ettrick or Yarrow; but hundreds of eyes will have been upon her; for these are quiet but not solitary glens; and the hunt will be over long before she has crossed down upon Hawick. I knew that country in my young days, What say you, Mr. Mayne? There is the light of hope in your face.” “There is no reason to doubt, ma’am, that it was Lucy. Everybody is sure of it. If it was my own Rachel, I should have no fear as to seeing her this blessed night.”

        15. Jacob Mayne now took a chair, and sat down, with even a smile upon his countenance. “I may tell you now, that Watty Oliver knows it was your child, for he saw her limping along after the gypsy at Galla-Brigg; but, having no suspicion, he did not take a second look at her,—but one look is sufficient, and he swears it was bonny Lucy Forester.”

        16. Aunt Isabel, by this time, had bread and cheese and a bottle of her own elder-flower wine on the table. “You have been a long and hard journey, wherever you have been, Mr. Mayne; take some refreshment;” and Michael asked a blessing.

        17. Jacob saw that he might now venture to reveal the whole truth. “No, no, Mrs. Irving, I am over happy to eat or to drink. You are all prepared for the blessing that awaits you. Your child is not far off; and I myself, for it is I myself that found her, will bring her by the hand, and restore her to her parents.”

        18. Agnes had raised herself up in her bed at these words, but she sank gently back on her pillow; aunt Isabel was rooted to her chair; and Michael, as he rose up, felt as if the ground were sinking under his feet. There was a dead silence all around the house for a short space, and then the sound of many voices, which again by degrees subsided. The eyes of all then looked, and yet feared to look, toward the door.

        19. Jacob Mayne was not so good as his word, for he did not bring Lucy by the hand to restore her to her parents; but dressed again in her own bonnet and gown, and her own plaid, in rushed their own child, by herself, with tears and sobs of joy, and her father laid her within her mother’s bosom.




【中文阅读】

        约翰 · 威尔逊（1785～1854），又称北方的克里斯托弗，后者更广为人知。威尔逊为著名作家、诗人兼评论家，他出生于苏格兰佩斯利，曾在格拉斯哥大学和牛津大学求学。1808年，他搬到英格兰威斯特摩兰，并建立“英国湖畔诗”流派分系。在牛津大学求学期间，他曾以一首题为《绘画，诗歌和建筑》的诗歌荣膺奖项。1820年，威尔逊成为英国爱丁堡大学伦理学教授，并一直任职到1851年。作为《安部罗斯那对话》一书首席作者，1822～1825年期间，该书在《黑檀木》杂志上连载，使其声名鹊起。他的诗歌《棕榈岛》和《瘟疫城》尤为值得一提。本章节由《林务官》删节改编，描写一位苏格兰人的生活故事。





        1.露西不过六岁，自命不凡地总想做仙女。她不计其数地独自攀爬房前屋后的陡坡，经常被差遣到两三英里外的地方。露西父母没有什么好担心的，孩子走路坚实有力，所到之处没有危险，即便露西单独玩耍时，也不像其他孩子那样不够谨慎小心。露西喜欢唱着歌走进低矮的灌林，她重复吟唱的稚嫩歌声在山坡上飘荡回响，她白嫩的小手扶着栏杆，时而飞快走过木桥，时而在浅窄溪水的石头上蹦来蹦去。

        2.小家伙一连好几个钟头不沾家，家里没人担心她，不管她去哪里玩，胳膊上挎只小花篮，或从邻居那借点家什物件，或不过独自玩耍的开心。她撒丫子在山涧花丛昏天黑地地玩，然后满筐野花野草拎回家。

        3.快乐的小姑娘总会和她的玩伴梅恩斯受邀去女人坡（两英里外一处农庄），整天在那开心玩耍。通常，露西日出一小时后离开家。她走后，家里显得安静祥和，可现在天黑早了，家里人惦记她早点回家。

        4.她的父母迈克尔、艾格尼丝，还有婶婶伊莎贝尔都去路上接她。大家有点纳闷地走呀走，不知不觉中竟然来到了女人坡，隐约听到屋里面孩子们的嬉笑打闹，聚会快结束了，依然喧闹翻天。雅各·梅恩过来开门，可听到来客礼貌地询问为何露西没有在天黑前赶到家，顿时，他神色惊愕地告诉他们，今天露西没来女人坡。

        5.接下来两小时里，上百人从四面八方到处搜索，甚至连露西完全不可能走到的地方也去了。整整一夜，那些牧羊人带上他们的牧羊犬，找遍了山间野外所有能想到的旮旯角落，甚至每处石缝沟壑、灌丛树林，那些可以藏身匿尸的所有地方，但，没有发现露西。

        6.似乎由某种超自然力量支撑，露西母亲一度亦参加了夜间搜索，她胆战心惊地查看途经的茂密丛林。夜色苍茫，山岭野外，“嗨—嗨—”的呼唤声不时在山间沟壑回荡，每一声都让露西母亲挂肚牵肠，她不时停下，聆听呼喊声中是否夹有欢乐或惊喜。月亮落山了，星星随之落下，她的心里刹那涌出丁点欣喜，夜幕黯淡隐去，清晨煦光乍露，惯常一轮艳阳腾空而起，露西父母迈克尔和艾格尼丝仍然没有孩子的消息。



              7.“露西或许陷进沼泽或泥泞的地方了，”迈克尔对身边的一个男人说，他没法直视那男人的脸，“对她来说，那么残忍的、无法想象的死亡！我的孩子，你究竟在哪里陷进去了？我们难道再也见不到你吗？”

        8.搜索队有人早已离开，独自往公路方向寻找，后来，有人朝迈克尔站的地方跑过来，胳膊上好像还抱着什么东西，艾格尼丝躺在草地上，明显看起来筋疲力尽似乎濒死的模样，大家纷纷围着她。来人犹豫着走近，迈克尔看清楚了，他怀里抱着露西的衣帽，还有外套。

        9.不难看出，孩子脖颈处的帽褶地方有斑点血迹，“谋杀，这是谋杀！”周围不约而同的窃窃私语或高声叫嚷响成一片。但是，母亲艾格尼丝听不见了，整整一夜希望与绝望的反复折磨后，她早已睡着了，或许正在梦里寻找她的可爱露西。



        10.婶婶伊莎贝尔拿过衣服，仔细察看一番，急切地说，“露西还活着，这些衣物上没有任何施暴者的痕迹。”她的声音给绝望的迈克尔带来希望，“不会是谋杀。这些血迹好像有意要隐藏什么。况且，为什么谋杀犯为什么不把这些衣物带走？他（她）又是为什么要杀害她呢？天呀，没有必要绝望！让我说什么好呢？这邪恶的世道！唉呀，简直太邪恶了！在世界上所有地方，但愿不会再有罪恶的手摧残我们的孩子！露西肯定被那些卑鄙无耻的吉卜赛乞丐偷走了，这点，难道不正像天底下阳光那样最简单明白？”

        11.人群很快散去了，马匹或脚印很快将布满周边区域。有人去大路搜索，有人去岔道追踪，还有很多人去那些偏僻的山隘小路寻找。此刻，大伙都从孩子已不在世上的可怕念想中解脱出来，更坏的灾祸看来绝不可能，生的希望已把露西重新带回众人怀抱。

        12.艾格尼丝走过蕨丛簇密的山坡，回到家倒床不起，她看来完全筋疲力尽，迈克尔和伊莎贝尔坐在她的床边。窗外，树叶沙沙，越过窗棂的阴影，周围仿佛沉浸一片悲戚之中。时间一点点流逝，直到满天星斗再现。“我听见有人爬上山坡。”艾格尼丝说着，似乎愣了愣神，不一会，雅各 · 梅恩的声音在门外响起。

        13.雅各 · 梅恩脸色凝重，从他表情来看，似乎并没有什么好消息。迈克尔在来客和夫人间站起，急切想从他的脸上寻到答案。雅各 · 梅恩此刻表情看来并非那么糟。“如果他没有露西的消息，”迈克尔心想，“看来不可能的，他对自己家庭的关心，亦不过如此。”“哦，说吧，说呀，”艾格尼丝焦急地问，转而又说：“还说什么好呢？所有不过虚妄之想，露西已经走了。”



              14.“怀疑与露西有关的线索已经发现，昨晚在卡楼福德，一位妇女，带着孩子，那孩子看起来并不像她亲生的，今天拂晓离开了。”“亲爱的艾格尼丝，你听到这消息吗？”伊莎贝尔急切地问道，然后接着说，“那吉卜赛女人肯定带着露西赶往埃特里克或亚罗，可好几百双眼睛不会放过她的，那些山道关隘尽管人烟稀少，但总会有人蹲守，甚至等不到那女人穿山越岭下来赶到霍伊克，我们就会抓住她。我打小对这块地区相当熟悉，你想说什么？梅恩先生？你的脸上露出希望。”“没有理由怀疑，伊莎贝尔，那孩子就是露西，没有人不相信。倘若那是我的女儿，在这个上帝赐福的夜晚，我根本不害怕弄清真相。”

        15.这时，雅各·梅恩拖过一把椅子坐下，脸上甚至浮出一丝笑容。“现在可以告诉你们，沃蒂·奥利弗认识你们的女儿，当时在加拉·布瑞格，他看见露西一跛一拐地跟在那吉卜赛女人身后，由于压根没怀疑，他只不过看了那孩子一眼，一眼就足够了。他发誓，那孩子就是漂亮的小露西·福斯特。”

        16.这时，伊莎贝尔婶婶把面包、奶酪还有自酿的一瓶接骨木花酒摆上了餐桌。“你肯定走了很远山路，路上那么难走，四处寻找，辛苦你了，梅恩先生，请吃点东西吧。”迈克尔亦随声附和。

        17.雅各心里清楚，说出真相的时候到了。“不，别急，欧文夫人，我实在太开心了，什么吃喝也不想。对于等待已久的圣灵赐福，你们大家心里肯定有所准备。你们孩子就在附近，是我亲自找到她的，亲手把她带回家，将她重新交到她父母的手中。”

        18.听到这话，艾格尼丝飞快地从床上起身，但她的头仍无力地落到了枕头上；伊莎贝尔婶婶呆坐片刻，半晌没回过神来；迈克尔站了起来，仿佛天塌地陷。房间里弥漫着死一般寂静，随即爆发出一片欢快嘈杂，好一会才平息下来。所有目光都注视门口，似乎惴惴不安，又害怕张望。

        19.雅各 · 梅恩的话没有兑现，他并未亲手将孩子送到她父母的手中；露西还是往常一身装扮，她戴着帽子，穿着裙子，套着那件斜纹外衣，不由分说地冲了过来；迈克尔悲喜交加，难以自禁，一把抱起女儿，将她投入母亲的怀抱。





        LESSON 28





THE REAPER AND THE FLOWERS


        花朵与死亡

        Henry Wadsworth Longfellow (b. 1807, d. 1882), the son of Hon. Stephen Longfellow, an eminent lawyer, was born in Portland, Maine. He graduated at Bowdoin College in 1825. After spending four years in Europe, he was Professor of Modern Languages and Literature at Bowdoin till 1835, when he was appointed to the chair of Modern Languages and Belles-lettres in Harvard University. He resigned his professorship in 1854, after which time he resided in Cambridge, Mass. Longfellow wrote many original works both in verse and prose, and made several translations, the most famous of which is that of the works of Dante. His poetry is always chaste and elegant, showing traces of careful scholarship in every line. The numerous and varied editions of his poems are evidences of their popularity.





        1. There is a Reaper whose name is Death,

        And, with his sickle keen,

         He reaps the bearded grain at a breath,

        And the flowers that grow between.





        2. “Shall I have naught that is fair?” saith he;

        “Have naught but the bearded grain?

         Though the breath of these flowers is sweet to me,

        I will give them all back again.”





        3. He gazed at the flowers with tearful eyes,

        He kissed their drooping leaves;

         It was for the Lord of Paradise

        He bound them in his sheaves[14].





        4. “My Lord has need of these flowerets gay,”

        The Reaper said, and smiled;

         “Dear tokens[15] of the earth are they,

        Where he was once a child.





        5. “They shall all bloom in the fields of light,

        Transplanted[16] by my care,

         And saints, upon their garments white,

        These sacred blossoms wear.”



              6. And the mother gave in tears and pain

        The flowers she most did love;

         She knew she should find them all again

        In the fields of light above.

        7. O, not in cruelty, not in wrath,

        The Reaper came that day,

         ’T was an angel visited the green earth,

        And took the flowers away.


【中文阅读】

        亨利 · 沃兹华思 · 朗费罗(1807～1882)为汉 · 斯蒂芬 · 朗费罗之子，著名律师，出生于美国缅因州波特兰，1825年他毕业于鲍登学院。在欧洲度过四年后，在鲍登学院担任现代语言与文学教授，直到1835年。随即，他又被任命为哈佛大学现代语言和纯文学系主任。1854年，在美国马萨诸塞州剑桥定居后，他辞去教授职位。朗费罗先生不仅创造了大量英文诗歌和散文，并且出版数部译著，包括最为著名的但丁翻译作品。他的诗歌纯洁不乏优雅，字里行间透出缜密的学术气质。纷杂多样的诗集版本，表明朗氏作品的风靡盛行。





        1.收割者，姑且称为死神，

        寒光凛冽，闪烁镰刀锋利，

        转眼间，长满胡须的作物伏地，

        满地繁花凋零，一扫而尽。





        2.“我一无所获，是否公平？”死神说，

        “除却谷物，最终万物皆空，

        清新恬谧的怒放，奉与死亡，

        可我终将魂魄，还给大地。”





        3.泪眼凝眸，风中婆娑招摇，

        死神亲吻，颓枝败叶的老去，

        捆扎曾经，晶莹剔透般娇艳，

        伊甸园里，呼朋唤友的精灵。





              4.“上帝但愿，花朵们竞相怒放，”

        说话间，死神露出笑意，

        “这些属于，大地的追忆馈赠。

        打他记事起，原本那样。”





        5.“小心翼翼，我将希望之树挪移，

        光的国度里，花朵訇然绽放，

        每一朵，圣洁素雅的花神，

        每一位，穿披圣袍的优美。”





        6. 母亲黯然神伤，痛苦哭泣，

        芳香满地，难诉别离衷肠，

        这一别，已是绝尘万里，

        望断秋水，几多妖娆难觅。





        7. 噢，不要残忍，不要愤怒，

        死亡之神，终于降临，

        “翩然天使，来到绿色大地，

        倏然带走，恍然如梦仙境。”





        LESSON 29





THE TOWN PUMP


        小镇水泵

        Nathaniel Hawthorne (b.1804, d.1864) was born in Salem, Mass. He graduated at Bowdoin College in 1825. His earliest literary productions, written for periodicals, were published in two volumes—the first in 1837, the second in 1842—under the title of “Twice-Told Tales,” “Mosses from an Old Manse,” another series of tales and sketches, was published in 1845. From 1846 to 1850 he was surveyor of the port of Salem. In 1852 he was appointed United States consul for Liverpool. After holding this office four years, he traveled for some time on the continent. His most popular works are “The Scarlet Letter,” a work showing a deep knowledge of human nature, “The House of the Seven Gables,” “The Blithedale Romance.” and “The Marble Faun,” an Italian romance, which is regarded by many as the best of his works. Being of a modest and retiring disposition, Mr. Hawthorne avoided publicity. Most of his works are highly imaginative. As a prose writer he has no superior among American authors. He died at Plymouth, N. H., while on a visit to the White Mountains for his health.





        [SCENE.—The corner of two principal streets. The Town Pump talking through its nose.]

        1. Noon, by the north clock! Noon, by the east! High noon, too, by those hot sunbeams which fall, scarcely aslope, upon my head, and almost make the water bubble and smoke in the trough under my nose. Truly, we public characters have a tough time of it! And among all the town officers, chosen at the yearly meeting, where is he that sustains, for a single year, the burden of such manifold duties as are imposed, in perpetuity[17], upon the Town Pump?

        2. The title of town treasurer is rightfully mine, as guardian of the best treasure the town has. The overseers of the poor ought to make me their chairman, since I provide bountifully for the pauper, without expense to him that pays taxes. I am at the head of the fire department, and one of the physicians of the board of health. As a keeper or the peace, all water drinkers confess me equal to the constable. I perform some of the duties of the town clerk, by promulgating[18] public notices, when they are pasted on my front.

        3. To speak within bounds, I am chief person of the municipality[19], and exhibit, moreover, an admirable pattern to my brother officers by the cool, steady, upright, downright, and impartial discharge of my business, and the constancy with which I stand to my post. Summer or winter, nobody seeks me in vain; for all day long I am seen at the busiest corner, just above the market, stretching out my arms to rich and poor alike; and at night I hold a lantern over my head, to show where I am, and to keep people out of the gutters.

        4. At this sultry noontide, I am cupbearer to the parched populace, for whose benefit an iron goblet is chained to my waist Like a dramseller on the public square, on a muster[20] day, I cry aloud to all and sundry[21], in my plainest accents, and at the very tiptop of my voice. “Here it is, gentlemen! Here is the good liquor! Walk up, walk up, gentlemen, walk up, walk up! Here is the superior stuff! Here is the unadulterated[22] ale of father Adam! better than Cognac[23], Hollands, Jamaica, strong beer, or wine of any price; here it is, by the hogshead or the single glass, and not a cent to pay. Walk up, gentlemen, walk up and help yourselves!”



              5. It were a pity if all this outcry should draw no customers. Here they come. A hot day, gentlemen. Quaff and away again, so as to keep yourselves in a nice, cool sweat. You, my friend, will need another cupful to wash the dust out of your throat, if it be as thick there as it is on your cowhide shoes. I see that you have trudged half a score of miles to-day, and, like a wise man, have passed by the taverns, and stopped at the running brooks and well curbs. Otherwise, betwixt heat without and fire within, you would have been burnt to a cinder, or melted down to nothing at all—in the fashion of a jellyfish.

        6. Drink, and make room for that other fellow, who seeks my aid to quench the fiery fever of last night’s potations[24], which he drained from no cup of mine. Welcome, most rubicund[25] sir! You and I have been strangers hitherto; nor, to confess the truth, will my nose be anxious for a closer intimacy, till the fumes of your breath be a little less potent.

        7. Mercy on you, man! The water absolutely hisses down your red-hot gullet, and is converted quite into steam in the miniature Tophet[26], which you mistake for a stomach. Fill again, and tell me, on the word of an honest toper, did you ever, in cellar, tavern, or any other kind of dramshop, spend the price of your children’s food for a swig half so delicious? Now, for the first time these ten years, you know the flavor of cold water. Good-by; and whenever you are thirsty, recollect that I keep a constant supply at the old stand.

        8. Who next? Oh, my little friend, you are just let loose from school, and come hither to scrub your blooming face, and drown the memory of certain taps of the ferule, and other schoolboy troubles, in a draught from the Town Pump. Take it, pure as the current of your young life; take it, and may your heart and tongue never be scorched with a fiercer thirst than now.

        9. There, my dear child, put down the cup, and yield your place to this elderly gentleman, who treads so tenderly over the paving stones that I suspect he is afraid of breaking them. What! he limps by without so much as thanking me, as if my hospitable offers were meant only for people who have no wine cellars.

        10. Well, well, sir, no harm done, I hope! Go, draw the cork, tip the decanter; but when your great toe shall set you a-roaring, it will be no affair of mine. If gentlemen love the pleasant titillation[27] of the gout, it is all one to the Town Pump. This thirsty dog, with his red tongue lolling out, does not scorn my hospitality, but stands on his hind legs, and laps eagerly out of the trough. See how lightly he capers away again! Jowler, did your worship ever have the gout?



              11. Your pardon, good people! I must interrupt my stream of eloquence, and spout forth a stream of water to replenish[28] the trough for this teamster and his two yoke of oxen, who have come all the way from Staunton, or somewhere along that way. No part of my business gives me more pleasure than the watering of cattle. Look! how rapidly they lower the watermark on the sides of the trough, till their capacious stomachs are moistened with a gallon or two apiece, and they can afford time to breathe, with sighs of calm enjoyment! Now they roll their quiet eyes around the brim of their monstrous drinking vessel. An ox is your true toper.

        12. I hold myself the grand reformer of the age. From my spout, and such spouts as mine, must flow the stream that shall cleanse our earth of a vast portion of its crime and anguish, which have gushed from the fiery fountains of the still. In this mighty enterprise, the cow shall be my great confederate. Milk and water!

        13. Ahem! Dry work this speechifying, especially to all unpracticed orators. I never conceived till now what toil the temperance lecturers undergo for my sake. Do, some kind Christian, pump a stroke or two, just to wet my whistle. Thank you, sir. But to proceed.





              14. The Town Pump and the Cow! Such is the glorious partnership that shall finally monopolize[29] the whole business of quenching thirst. Blessed consummation[30]! Then Poverty shall pass away from the land, finding no hovel so wretched where her squalid[31] form may shelter itself. Then Disease, for lack of other victims, shall gnaw his own heart and die. Then Sin, if she do not die, shall lose half her strength.

        15. Then there will be no war of households. The husband and the wife, drinking deep of peaceful joy, a calm bliss of temperate affections, shall pass hand in hand through life, and lie down, not reluctantly, at its protracted[32] close. To them the past will be no turmoil of mad dreams, nor the future an eternity of such moments as follow the delirium of a drunkard. Their dead faces shall express what their spirits were, and are to be, by a lingering smile of memory and hope.

        16. Drink, then, and be refreshed! The water is as pure and cold as when it slaked[33] the thirst of the red hunter, and flowed beneath the aged bough, though now this gem of the wilderness is treasured under these hot stones, where no shadow falls, but from the brick buildings. But, still is this fountain the source of health, peace, and happiness, and I behold, with certainty and joy, the approach of the period when the virtues of cold water, too little valued since our father’s days, will be fully appreciated and recognized by all.


【中文阅读】

        纳撒尼尔 · 霍桑（1804～1864）出生于美国马萨诸塞州塞勒姆，1825年毕业于鲍登学院。他早期为期刊所写的文学作品辑为两集出版，分别于1837年和1842年问世，题名为《老生常谈的故事》、《老迈牧师的古宅青苔》。1845年，霍桑先生另一本故事和短篇作品集出版。从1846～1850年，他担任塞勒姆港口的勘测官。1852年，他被美国政府任命驻利物浦领事，任职4年后，他一度在欧洲大陆考察游览。霍桑最受追捧的《红字》为一部深刻揭示人性的上乘之作，以及《七座山墙的房屋》、《布里斯戴尔浪漫》、《大理石农牧之神》，后者描述一位意大利人的浪漫。大多数人公认《大理石农牧之神》为他的巅峰之作。由于生性谦逊，不善社交，霍桑先生习惯躲避公众关注，他的大多作品具有高超的想象力。就散文写作来说，他在美国作家群中绝非出类拔萃。霍桑在美国新罕布什尔州普利茅斯与世长辞，当时他因健康原因去怀特山观光游览。





        [幕景两个主要街道交口。小镇水泵在用鼻子说话]



        1.中午，北方时钟报时！中午，东方时钟报时！正午，那炽火的光几乎垂直泻落到我的头顶，我鼻子下水槽里的水即将沸腾冒烟，坦率地说，我们这些公众人物居然身受如此磨难。如果镇政府大小一干官员，若有人被选中参加小镇年度会议，是否意味一年内他应该履行那些五花八门的职责，类似那些被永久赋予小镇水泵身上的诸多义务？



              2.通过某种正当方式，我被授以小镇财务长官的头衔，如同小镇那些宝贵资产的监护人。那些济贫会执事们真该提名我为主席，由于我慷慨地为乞丐或贫民提供帮助，更无需让他们缴税。我是小镇消防部门当仁不让的主管，同时行使镇上卫生理事会医生的崇高职责。作为小镇的维护者，或者毋庸说安宁生活的守护者，所有饮水居民无不承认我的作用好比治安巡警。一旦镇政府颁布公告张贴到我的身上，我甚至亦能履行小镇官员的相应管理义务。

        3.就言论许可范围来说，我是小镇当局的重要人物兼政务形象。此外，鉴于我的冷静稳定、诚信爽直，以及公正地胜任工作，坚持履行职责，对我的兄弟官员来说，难保不成为令人钦佩的光辉榜样。无论寒寒暑秋冬，无论什么人，我一概有求必应。从早到晚，我成天呆在市场上最繁忙的地方，不管穷人富人，都是以礼相待。每逢夜晚，我会在我的头顶挂上一盏灯，表明我的存在，提醒镇上居民小心沟坎。

        4.在这个闷热难当的中午，我成了为那些干渴市民斟水上茶的跑堂，我尽心为他们服务，腰上别挂个铁制酒杯，就像公众广场游行集会上的酒厂推销员。对那些南来北往的人，我用最道地的口音，对那些南来北往的人大声叫喊，“快来看呀，女士们，先生们，清爽甘甜的饮料！快点来呀，快来看呀！女士们，先生们，快点来呀，快来看呀！这可是上等的饮料，货真价实的亚当父亲的麦酒！比法国白兰地酒、荷兰杜松子酒、牙买加酒、高浓度啤酒，甭管多高价钱的酒还要棒！饮料大卖啦！无论你要上一大桶，还是只喝一小杯，统统无需付一个子儿。快来呀，女士们，先生们，快点呀，赶快来敞开肚子喝个痛快吧！”

        5.万一这样大声吆喝还不能吸引顾客，那可真够遗憾的。看！有人来了。天这么热，先生们，大口狂饮吧，喝好再离开。多么透彻清凉！多么畅快淋漓！我的朋友们，你们还得再来一杯，好好漱漱你们满嘴尘土的喉咙。如果满脸风尘仆仆，想必今天你长途跋涉而来。每当路过客栈或酒馆，你总会在河溪旁或井栏边停下脚步，那才是明智的首选。否则，面对内热与外火的里外夹攻，你很可能被灼成一团热碳慢慢燃尽，或类似软耷无力的海蜇最后干涸死去。

        6.喝吧，再给那家伙腾点地方。此刻，那醉醺醺的家伙需要我，才能平息他内心的炽烈。昨晚，他饮尽的全是酒，没有一滴水。欢迎你！面颊通红的先生！你我至今素不相识，亦没有说过心里话，但愿我能与你贴得更近些，稍微减轻点你的炙热痛苦。



              7.可怜的人，我怜悯你！水可以彻底消退你咽喉的烈火煎熬，在你喉腔的微小地狱里全部化为缕缕水气，可你误把喉咙当做胃，不停地牛饮海灌猫尿。请你以诚实酒鬼的名义告诉我，是否曾经在地窖或酒馆、甚至像样点的酒吧，挥霍花尽你孩子的生活费，一大口喝下大半瓶，痛饮中不能自抑？十年来，你第一次终究明白了凉水滋味。再见，无论什么时候，倘若再干渴冒火，不妨回想一下，我会在老地方给你送上清冽甘甜的凉水。

        8.下一个轮到谁？哦，我的小朋友。你不过想从紧张的校园里放松自己。过来！洗洗你那花朵般的小脸，暂时忘掉学校里那些清规戒律，还有与小伙伴争吵的闷闷不乐。在小镇水泵这里痛快地喝上一气，喝吧，这水纯净得好像你年轻生命启程的小溪；喝吧，但愿你的身心永远不会像现在受尽饥渴的折磨。

        9.过来，我可爱的孩子，放下杯子，给走过来这位年迈绅士让条路来。老人缓步地走过街上石子路，脚步很轻，我怀疑他似乎害怕会把石子踩碎。天呀！那老人蹒跚地走过，压根没想到对我心存感激，好像我的好意不过为了那些家里没有酒窖的酒鬼。

        10.好了，好了，先生，但愿你一点没有受伤！请过来，拔掉软木塞，倾倒那个热水瓶；不过，一旦你那了不得的脚拇指让你咆哮起来，那可与我真是毫不相干。如果绅士们都喜欢这种蹭痒游戏，对小镇水泵来说，也没什么！这条干渴至极的狗，它红红的舌头耷拉外面，它并不厌恶我的殷勤好客。此时，它倚着后腿立起，急切地拍打水槽里流出的水，看呀，它那么快乐地再次雀跃跑开！好一条大颌狗！你的拜神仪式中竟然还有这等乐趣？

        11.请你们原谅，好心的人。我得打断一下我的连珠妙语。我得赶紧喷水，眼见水槽里的水快要见底了。那个赶车的人走过来了，牵着他的双轭牛车，也许从斯坦顿或其他什么地方一路匆匆赶来。没有什么事情能比我能为畜群提供饮水更开心。看！水槽两边的水位标降得多快，直到它们个个喝得肚鼓腰圆，不时地打上几声响嚏，发出快乐的喘息！好了，它们此刻正安详地望着各自鼓胀的胃囊。牛们，你们才是真正的豪饮者。

        12.我自认是这一时代了不起的改革家。一股股清澈水流汹涌喷泻，源源不断地来自静寂的泉眼深处，从我的喷嘴或姑且算作的喷嘴里流出，势必涤荡这个世界上大多罪恶与痛苦。在这一辉煌的事业中，奶牛正是我伟大的同盟军，给力！牛奶，还有水！

        13.唉! 尤其对那些初出茅庐的演说者，口干舌燥、滔滔不绝的演说，难免不是高谈阔论。直到现在我才意识到，由于我的缘故，那些演说家的节制颇为痛苦。那位好心的基督徒，压住水泵猛地揿按一两下，不过才弄湿我的鼻子。谢谢你，先生，请继续压呀，别松手。



              14.小镇水泵和奶牛不愧光荣的联手，上帝保佑的终极完美，最终势必占据试图消除干渴的世界垄断领域！这一上帝佑福的终极完美！整个世界上，贫穷将不复存在。不会有遮蔽自身污秽的悲惨鄙陋。因此，受害者从此锐减，疾病不再猖獗蔓延。至于罪恶，如果不能完全泯灭，亦会苟存不多。

        15.那时，将不会有家庭战争，夫妻一起静静享受岁月姝好，手牵手地走过温馨一生，面对死亡无怨无悔，直到绵延温情戛然而止。在他们眼里，不曾有疯子癫狂梦魇的体验，亦不会有酒鬼谵妄错乱后的悔意不迭。那种记忆与希冀的微笑难以消逝，曾经以及未来爱恋的精神契合将在他们的脸上自然浮现。

        16.喝吧，接下来你会焕然一新！水，那么纯净透凉，何时才能平息杀戮者的嗜血疯狂？泉水淙淙，从苍劲古老的粗干虬枝下奔涌流出，尽管大漠荒烟里历史珍宝仍深藏在炽热岩浆中。那里天远地阔，没有遮蔽，唯有现代文明的阴翳庇护，那才是人类康健和平乃至幸福的源泉。我确信它的到来，快乐地翘首以待。从耶稣诞生之日起，那曾经过于低估、清澈之水的种种美德，将会获得我们的充分评价与再度认知。





        LESSON 30





GOOD NIGHT


        晚 安

        Samuel Griswold Goodrich (b. 1793, d. 1860) was born in Ridgefield, Conn. Mr. Goodrich is best known as “Peter Parley,” under which assumed name he commenced the publication of a series of Juvenile works about 1827. He edited “Parley’s Magazine” from 1841 to 1854. He was appointed United States consul for Paris in 1848, and held that office four years. He was a voluminous writer, and his works are interesting and popular. His “Recollections of a Lifetime” was published in 1857, and “Peter Parley’s Own Story” the year after his death.





        1. The sun has sunk behind the hills,

        The shadows o’er the landscape creep;

        A drowsy sound the woodland fills,

        As nature folds her arms to sleep:

         Good night—good night.





        2. The chattering jay has ceased his din,

        The noisy robin sings no more;

        The crow, his mountain haunt within,

        Dreams ’mid the forest’s surly roar:

         Good night—good night.





        3. The sunlit cloud floats dim and pale;

        The dew is falling soft and still,

        The mist hangs trembling o’er the vale,

        And silence broods o’er yonder mill:

         Good night—good night.





        4. The rose, so ruddy in the light,

        Bends on its stem all rayless now;

        And by its side a lily white,

        A sister shadow, seems to bow:

         Good night—good night.





        5. The bat may wheel on silent wing,

        The fox his guilty vigils keep,

        The boding owl his dirges sing;

        But love and innocence will sleep:

         Good night—good night.



                              [1] The scene of this story is laid in Scotland, and many of the words employed, such as brae, brake, heather, and plaid, are but little used except in that country.



                      [2]Brae, shelving ground, a declivity or slope of a hill.



                      [3]Pastimes, sports, plays.



                      [4]Rioting, romping.



                      [5]Heather, an evergreen shrub bearing beautiful flowers, used in Great Britain for making brooms, etc.



                      [6]Inspired, animated, enlivened.



                      [7]Supernatural, more than human.



                      [8]Brake, a place overgrown with shrubs and brambles.



                      [9]Reverberating, resounding, echoing.



                      [10]Intent, having the mind closely fixed.



                      [11]Plaid, a striped or decked overgarment worn by the Scotch.



                      [12]Ejaculated, exclaimed.



                      [13]Scour, to pass over swiftly and thoroughly.



                      [14]Sheaves, bundles of grain.



                      [15]Token, a souvenir, that which is to recall some person, thing, or event.



                      [16]Transplanted, removed and planted in another place.



                      [17]Perpetuity, endless duration.



                      [18]Promulgating, announcing.



                      [19]Municipality, a division of a country or of a city.



                      [20] Muster day, parade day.



                      [21]Sundry, several.



                      [22]Unadulterated, pure, unmixed.



                      [23]Cognac, a French brandy.



                      [24]Potations, drinkings.



                      [25]Rubicund, inclining to redness.



                      [26]Tophet, the infernal regions.



                      [27]Titillation, tickling.



                      [28]Replenish, to fill again.



                      [29]Monopolize, to obtain the whole.



                      [30]Consummation, completion, termination.



                      [31]Squalid, filthy.



                      [32]Protracted, delayed.



                      [33]Slaked, quenched.





【中文阅读】

        塞缪尔 · 格里斯沃德 · 古德里奇（1793～1860）出生于美国康涅狄格州瑞吉菲尔德。古德里奇先生笔名彼得 · 帕利更为世人熟知。1827年前后，他以笔名开始出版系列青少年作品。从1841年至1854年，他从事编辑《帕利杂志》。1848年，他被任命美国驻巴黎领事，任职4年。古德里奇先生著述丰富，文字饶有趣味，深受公众欢迎。他的《一生的回忆》出版于1857年，去世后，他的《彼得·帕利的故事》一书翌年出版。





        1．太阳，藏到山后了，

        影子，蠕动在寥廓霜天，

        森林里，响起长短不一的哈欠，

        大地，隆起臂膀开始睡眠，

        晚安，大家晚安！





        2．饶舌的，松鸡不再喧哗，

        啁啾的，知更鸟停止歌唱，

        风声乍起，惊飞一行寒鸦，

        安谧的梦，在浓密山峦滚下。

        晚安，大家晚安！





        3．夕阳云朵，暮色里游动昏暗；

        露珠轻声，凝固起静穆悄然，

        溪谷升起，雾霭颤栗的网，

        徘徊很久，直到磨坊天边。

        晚安，大家晚安！





        4．大红玫瑰，落日里抖出亮丽，

        枝叶匍匐，收尽白昼光华，

        朦胧身边，白色娇艳百合，

        娉婷而立，仿佛谦卑致意，

        晚安，大家晚安！



              5．蝙蝠无声无息，空中盘旋，

        狐狸警觉，等待猎物出现，

        猫头鹰，撕开夜的挽歌，

        爱情，进入童话梦幻。

        晚安，大家晚安！





        LESSON 31





AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL


        刻板守旧的姑娘

        Louisa May Alcott (b. 1833, d. 1888) was born at Germantown, Pa., of New England parentage. Her parents afterwards returned to New England, and most of her life was spent in Concord, Mass. During the Civil War she went to Washington and nursed the wounded and sick until her own health gave way. As a child she used to write stories for the amusement of her playmates, and in 1857 published her first book, “Flower Fables.” Her first novel, “Moods,” appeared in 1865. “Little Women,” published in 1868, is a picture of her own home life. “An Old Fashioned Girl,” from which this extract is adapted, was published in 1870, and is one of her most popular books.





        1. Polly hoped the “dreadful boy” (Tom) would not be present; but he was, and stared at her all dinner time in a most trying manner.

        2. Mr. Shaw, a busy-looking gentleman, said, “How do you do, my dear? Hope you’ll enjoy yourself;” and then appeared to forget her entirely. Mrs. Shaw, a pale, nervous woman, greeted her little guest kindly, and took care that she wanted for nothing.

        3. Madam Shaw, a quiet old lady, with an imposing[1] cap, exclaimed, on seeing Polly, “Bless my heart! the image of her mother—a sweet woman—how is she, dear?” and kept peering at the newcomer over her glasses till, between Madam and Tom, poor Polly lost her appetite.

        4. Her cousin Fanny chatted like a magpie[2], and little Maud fidgeted, till Tom proposed to put her under the big dish cover, which produced such an explosion that the young lady was borne screaming away by the much-enduring nurse.

        5. It was, altogether, an uncomfortable dinner, and Polly was very glad when it was over. They all went about their own affairs; and, after doing the honors of the house, Fan was called to the dressmaker, leaving Polly to amuse herself in the great drawing-room.

        6. Polly was glad to be alone for a few minutes; and, having examined all the pretty things about her, began to walk up and down over the soft, flowery carpet, humming to herself, as the daylight faded, and only the ruddy glow of the fire filled the room.

        7. Presently Madam came slowly in, and sat down in her armchair, saying, “That’s a fine old tune; sing it to me, my dear. I have n’t heard it this many a day.”

        8. Polly didn’t like to sing before strangers, for she had no teaching but such as her busy mother could give her; but she had been taught the utmost respect for old people, and, having no reason for refusing, she directly went to the piano and did as she was bid.

        9. “That’s the sort of music it’s a pleasure to hear. Sing some more, dear,” said Madam, in her gentle way, when she had done.

        10. Pleased with this praise, Polly sang away in a fresh little voice that went straight to the listener’s heart and nestled there. The sweet old tunes that one is never tired of were all Polly’s store. The more she sung, the better she did it; and when she wound up with “A Health to King Charlie,” the room quite rung with the stirring music made by the big piano and the little maid.



              11. “That’s a jolly tune! Sing it again, please,” cried Tom’s voice; and there was Tom’s red head bobbing up over the high back of the chair where he had hidden himself.

        12. It gave Polly quite a turn, for she thought no one was hearing her but the old lady dozing by the fire. “I can’t sing any more; I’m tired,” she said, and walked away to Madam in the other room. The red head vanished [3]like a meteor[4], for Polly’s tone had been decidedly cool.

        13. The old lady put out her hand, and, drawing Polly to her knee, looked into her face with such kind eyes that Polly forgot the impressive cap, and smiled at her confidently[5]; for she saw that her simple music had pleased her listener, and she felt glad to know it.

        14. “You mus’n’t mind my staring, dear,” said Madam, softly pinching her rosy cheek, “I haven’t seen a little girl for so long, it does my old eyes good to look at you.” Polly thought that a very odd speech, and could n’t help saying, “Are n’t Fan and Maud little girls, too?”

        15. “Oh, dear, no! not what I call little girls. Fan has been a young lady this two years, and Maud is a spoiled baby. Your mother’s a very sensible woman, my child.”

        16. “What a queer old lady!” thought Polly; but she said “Yes’m,” respectfully, and looked at the fire. “You don’t understand what I mean, do you?” asked Madam, still holding her by the chin. “No’m; not quite.”

        17. “Well, dear, I’ll tell you. In my day, children of fourteen and fifteen did n’t dress in the height of the fashion; go to parties as nearly like those of grown people as it’s possible to make them; lead idle, giddy, unhealthy lives, and get blase’[6] at twenty. We were little folks till eighteen or so; worked and studied, dressed and played, like children; honored our parents; and our days were much longer in the land than now, it seems to me.”

        18. The old lady appeared to forget Polly, at the end of her speech; for she sat patting the plump little hand that lay in her own, and looking up at a faded picture of an old gentleman with a ruffled shirt and a queue. “Was he your father, Madam?”

        19. “Yes, my dear; my honored father. I did up his frills to the day of his death; and the first money I ever earned, was five dollars which he offered as a prize to whichever of his six girls would lay the handsomest darn in his silk stockings.”

        20. “How proud you must have been!” cried Polly, leaning on the old lady’s knee with an interested face.

        21. “Yes; and we all learned to make bread, and cook, and wore little chintz gowns, and were as gay and hearty as kittens. All lived to be grandmothers; and I’m the last—seventy next birthday, my dear, and not worn out yet; though daughter Shaw is an invalid[7] at forty.”

        22. “That’s the way I was brought up, and that’s why Fan calls me old-fashioned, I suppose. Tell more about your papa, please; I like it,” said Polly.



              23. “Say, ‘father.’ We never called him papa; and if one of my brothers had addressed him as ‘governor,’ as boys now do, I really think he’d have him cut off with a shilling.”


【中文阅读】

        路易莎 · 梅 · 奥尔科特（1833～1888）出生于美国宾夕法尼亚州日耳曼敦的一个具有新英格兰血统的家庭。她的父母后来返回新英格兰地区，她一生中大多时间在马萨诸塞州康科德度过。内战期间，路易莎去了华盛顿，在那里护理伤病员，后来因自身健康原因离开。路易莎年幼起就开始写故事，当时不过为她的童年伙伴寻找乐趣。1857年，她出版了题为《花的寓言》的第一部小说，她的《情绪》发表于1865年，《小妇人》出版于1868年，那是她自己家庭的生活写照。《一位传统守旧的女人》发表于1870年，是她最受欢迎的作品之一。此段由书中删节改编。





        1．波莉但愿那个讨厌的男孩（汤姆）不会来，可他偏在，更可恶的是，他那惹人生烦的眼睛直直地盯着她，整整一餐饭，没闪过眼。

        2．肖先生说，“你好，亲爱的，希望你在这里玩得开心。”他似乎忙得不可开交，接下来，好像完全忘了她的存在。面色苍白的肖太太，神情有点紧张，问候了她的小客人后，便再也没有招呼她。

        3．年迈的肖老夫人，言语不多，头上戴着颇为夸张的帽子，一见波莉，就大呼小叫起来，“我的天哪！好家伙！简直和你妈一个模子刻出来的，你妈可真是个大美人，她还好吗？我的孩子。”老太太边说，边从眼镜上端辨认才到的客人，侧身躲过肖太太和汤姆挡住来客的视线。可怜的波莉觉得索然无趣。

        4．波莉堂姐范妮叽喳起来没完没了，旁边的小穆德烦躁地坐立不安。汤姆对她说，那我把你放到那个大号菜盘盖子下，没想到，居然让过来掀锅盖的一位年轻女子尖叫着跑开，这种把戏实在超出了她的心理承受能力。

        5．总而言之，那次经历有点令人难忘，一俟晚餐结束，波莉如释重负地喘气，顿时开心起来。大家各忙各的散去了，尽过地主之谊后，范妮被叫到裁缝那里去了，偌大的客厅里，只留波莉独自一人玩耍。

        6．波莉感觉很爽，没人叨扰自己。将周围好玩的杂七杂八瞅完后，波莉在客厅那块松软的花地毯上走来走去，嘴里不停地哼唱着。白天正在退去，火苗的红润光亮在整个房间弥漫开来。

        7． 不一会，肖老夫人步履迟缓地走进客厅，在摇椅上坐下，她对波莉说，“这是一只很老的曲子，很好听，给我唱唱，亲爱的，我可是很久没听过这首歌了。”





              8．在生人面前开口让波莉感到很是别扭，波莉从未受过什么正规教育，除了从整天忙碌的妈妈那得到些家常教诲；长者最应该获得尊重，这种道理她倒是清楚，看来没有任何理由拒绝，于是，她径直走到钢琴边，按老人的吩咐唱了起来。



        9．波莉唱完，老夫人轻声地说，“就是这首歌，真的不错。再来一遍吧，亲爱的。”

        10．听到老夫人的赞扬，波莉心里感觉挺受用。再次开口时，她的歌声愈加清新柔婉，悠悠然荡漾开来。百听不厌、经典甜美的老歌从来都是波莉的拿手好戏。她越唱越发投入，一曲《祝查理国王健康》达到高亢，整个房间弥漫着钢琴叮当交响与小姑娘的美妙歌声。

        11．“这曲子太好听了！再唱一遍，好吗？”汤姆冷不丁冒了出来。他的红头发突然出现在高椅后面，没想到，他竟藏在那里。

        12．波莉心猛然一惊，她原以为，客厅里只有那位老太太，在火炉边打盹，不会有别人，“不唱了，我累了。”说完，她迅速躲开汤姆，走向房间那头的老太太。红头发汤姆即刻流星般消失了，毕竟，波莉话里有不容置疑的冷淡。

        13．老太太伸出手，把波莉拉到她的身边，满眼慈祥地望着她，此刻的波莉早已忘记老人头上那顶讨厌的帽子，看着老太太笑了起来，心里不再感到怯意。她很清楚，她的听众对自己的歌声饶有兴趣，想到这里，她觉得很开心。

        14．“千万别介意我这样看着你，亲爱的，”老人轻轻捏了捏小姑娘粉红色的脸颊，“我很长时间没和小姑娘这样说话了，成天老眼昏花的，看到你，我也神清气爽了。”波莉听到这些，心里纳闷，禁不住问道：“范妮还有穆德，难道不也是小姑娘吗？”

        15. “哦，不，孩子，那可不是我说的小姑娘，范妮这两年长大了，变成大姑娘了，穆德实在是被宠坏了。你妈妈真是明晓事理，我的孩子。”

        16．“老太太够古怪的！”波莉心想。“是的，夫人，”她嘴上只管附和老太太，眼睛却盯着炉中火苗。“你难道不明白我的意思吗？”老太太问道，手还轻轻捏了一下波莉下巴。“是的，好像不太明白。”

        17．“好的，孩子，我来告诉你。在我们那个年代，14—15岁的姑娘不会穿现在的时尚短裙，也不会穿类似成人的服装去参加各种聚会，如果那样装扮，看起来就会让人感觉游手好闲，轻佻浅薄，甚至生活不正常。等到二十岁左右，你自己也会玩腻的。18岁之前，我们不过都是些小毛孩子，整天就是拼命读书学习，穿衣打扮得像正经家庭的孩子，这要尊敬父母长辈，与现在相比，那时日子舒坦实在得多，至少对我来说是这样。”



              18．说话末了，老太太似乎忘了波莉，她坐在那里，忘神地轻轻拍着握在她手里那只丰润的小手，然后抬头看了看泛黄的相片，相片中老先生穿着衬衫，头上系根发辫，衣服有点皱巴巴的。“这是你父亲吗？夫人？”

        19．“是的，亲爱的，那就是我可爱的父亲。我一直给父亲整理衣物，直到他离开人世。记得我第一次挣的五美元，就是他给他六个女儿定的规矩，谁的织补活最好，谁就得到那次奖励。”

        20.“你一定非常自豪！”波莉叫了起来，她倚靠在老太太的膝头，饶有兴趣地看着老人。

        21．“你说得不错，我们六姐妹都学会了做面包，烧饭，从小就穿粗布衣衫，整天活泼健康的，像一群活蹦乱跳的猫仔。如今，我们姐妹六个都当上奶奶了，我最小，明年就七十岁了，孩子，我这身子骨还结实着呢，可我的女儿肖才四十岁上下，身体就不中用了。”

        22．“那就是我接受的教育方式，我想，也就是范妮为什么总是叫我老古董。再说说你的爸爸，求你了，我喜欢听。”波莉说。

        23．“我们从不叫他‘爸爸’，只称呼他‘父亲’，如果我的兄弟中有人撒娇地叫他‘老爸’，就像眼下孩子们习惯那样，父亲肯定会用一先令剥夺他的实际财产继承权，这一点，我从不怀疑。”





        LESSON 32





MY MOTHER’S HANDS


        妈妈的双手

         1. Such beautiful, beautiful hands!

         They’re neither white nor small;

         And you, I know, would scarcely think

         That they are fair at all.

         I’ve looked on hands whose form and hue

         A sculptor’s dream might be;

         Yet are those aged, wrinkled hands

         More beautiful to me.





         2. Such beautiful, beautiful hands!

         Though heart were weary and sad,

         Those patient hands kept toiling on,

         That the children might be glad.

         I always weep, as, looking back

         To childhood’s distant day,

         I think how those hands rested not

         When mine were at their play.





         3. Such beautiful, beautiful hands!

         They’re growing feeble now,

         For time and pain have left their mark

         On hands and heart and brow.

         Alas! alas! the nearing time,

         And the sad, sad day to me,

         When ’neath the daisies, out of sight,

         These hands will folded be.





         4. But oh! beyond this shadow land,

         Where all is bright and fair,

         I know full well these dear old hands

         Will palms of victory bear;

         Where crystal streams through endless years

         Flow over golden sands,

         And where the old grow young again,

        I’ll clasp my mother’s hands.



                              [1]Imposing, having the power of exciting attention and feeling, impressive.



                      [2]Magpie, a noisy, mischievous bird, common in Europe and America.



                      [3]Vanished, disappeared.



                      [4] Meteor, a shooting star.



                      [5]Confidently, with trust.



                      [6]Blase, a French word meaning surfeited, rendered incapable further enjoyment.



                      [7] Invalid, a person who is sickly.





【中文阅读】

        1．如此美丽的双手！

        不白，也不娇小，

        我知道，你很少想到，

        你的手，叙述朴实无华之道。

        我端详，那手的形态色泽，

        或许激起，雕塑家艺术灵感，

        尽管，干枯羸弱皱纹满布，

        只需一眼，就将我彻底击倒。





        2．如此美丽的双手！

        虽然，心里盛满疲惫哀伤，

        每天渴望，孩子们醉心微笑，

        日夜操劳，忍受生活的痛楚，

        时常回首，我总会无声恸哭，

        一幕幕，那煎熬的锥心刺骨，

        当年我，尽情地奔跑玩耍，

        从未想到，妈妈的千辛万苦。





        3．如此美丽的双手！

        那双手， 衰老已不堪入目，

        逝水流年，留下岁月屐痕，

        亲情难舍，远去的晨钟暮鼓，

        唉！越来越近的最后撒手，

        我的心，那么悲痛欲绝，

        雏菊花下，消失了你佝偻身影，

        所有思念，竟敌不过一抔黄土。





        4． 哦， 越过死亡阴影，

        抵达最后的光明彼岸，

        我感叹，那苍老怜爱的双手，

        掬起母亲，一生的悲欢离愁；

        人世间， 那个于我最特别的人，

        流泻出，母性的庸常感动，

        恍惚中，倏然穿越漫长时光，

        我依然，紧紧扣住母亲的双手。





        LESSON 33





THE DISCONTENTED PENDULUM


        不满意的钟摆

        Jane Taylor (b. 1783, d. 1824) was born in London. Her mother was a writer of some note. In connection with her sister Ann, Jane Taylor wrote several juvenile works of more than ordinary excellence. Among them were “Hymns for Infant Minds” and “Original Poems.” Besides these, she wrote “Display, a Tale,” “Essays in Rhyme,” and “Contributions of QQ.” Her writings are graceful, and often contain a useful moral.





        1. An old clock that had stood for fifty years in a farmer’s kitchen, without giving its owner any cause of complaint, early one summer’s morning, before the family was stirring, suddenly stopped. Upon this, the dial plate (if we may credit the fable) changed countenance with alarm; the hands made a vain effort to continue their course; the wheels remained motionless with surprise; the weights hung speechless; and each member felt disposed to lay the blame on the others. At length the dial instituted[1] a formal inquiry as to the cause of the stagnation, when hands, wheels, weights, with one voice, protested[2] their innocence.

        2. But now a faint tick was heard below from the pendulum, who spoke thus: “I confess myself to be the sole cause of the present stoppage; and I am willing, for the general satisfaction, to assign my reasons. The truth is, that I am tired of ticking.” Upon hearing this, the old clock became so enraged that it was upon the very point of striking. “Lazy wire!” exclaimed the dial plate, holding up its bands.

        3. “Very good!” replied the pendulum; “it is vastly easy for you, Mistress Dial, who have always, as everybody knows, set yourself up above me,—it is vastly easy for you, I say, to accuse other people of laziness! you who have had nothing to do all your life but to stare people in the face, and to amuse yourself with watching all that goes on in the kitchen. Think, I beseech you, how you would like to be shut up for life in this dark closet, and to wag backward and forward year after year, as I do.”

        4. “As to that,” said the dial, “is there not a window in your house on purpose for you to look through?” “For all that,” resumed the pendulum, “it is very dark here; and, although there is a window, I dare not stop even for an instant to look out at it. Besides, I am really tired of my way of life; and, if you wish, I’ll tell you how I took this disgust at my employment. I happened, this morning, to be calculating[3] how many times I should have to tick in the course of only the next twenty-four hours; perhaps some one of you above there can give me the exact sum.”

        5. The minute hand, being quick at figures, presently replied, “Eighty-six thousand four hundred times.” “Exactly so,” replied the pendulum. “Well, I appeal to you all, if the very thought of this was not enough to fatigue anyone; and when I began to multiply the strokes of one day by those of months and years, really it was no wonder if I felt discouraged at the prospect[4]. So, after a great deal of reasoning and hesitation, thinks I to myself, I’ll stop.”



              6. The dial could scarcely keep its countenance during this harangue[5]; but, resuming its gravity, thus replied: “Dear Mr. Pendulum, I am really astonished that such a useful, industrious person as yourself should have been seized by this sudden weariness. It is true, you have done a great deal of work in your time; so have we all, and are likely to do; which, although it may fatigue us to think of, the question is, whether it will fatigue us to do. Would you now do me the favor to give about half a dozen strokes to illustrate[6] my argument?”

        7. The pendulum complied, and ticked six times at its usual pace. “Now,” resumed the dial, “may I be allowed to inquire if that exertion[7] is at all fatiguing or disagreeable to you?” “Not in the least,” replied the pendulum; “it is not of six strokes that I complain, nor of sixty, but of millions.”

        8. “Very good,” replied the dial; “but recollect that, although you may think of a million of strokes in an instant, you are required to execute[8] but one; and that, however often you may hereafter have to swing, a moment will always be given you to swing in.” “That consideration[9] staggers me, I confess,” said the pendulum. “Then I hope,” resumed the dial plate, “that we shall all return to our duty immediately; for the maids will be in bed if we stand idling thus.”

        9. Upon this, the weights, who had never been accused of light conduct, used all their influence in urging him to proceed; when, as if with one consent, the wheels began to turn, the hands began to move, the pendulum began to swing, and, to its credit, ticked as loud as ever; while a red beam of the rising sun, that streamed through a hole in the kitchen, shining full upon the dial plate, it brightened up as if nothing had been the matter.

        10. When the farmer came down to breakfast that morning, upon looking at the clock, he declared that his watch had gained half an hour in the night.


【中文阅读】

        简 · 泰勒（1783～1824）出生于英国伦敦，母亲是位游记作家。简 · 泰勒写过数本有关青少年的作品，这些作品与她的妹妹安有关，达到卓越的文学高度，包括《幼稚思想的赞美》和《原始诗歌》。除此，她还写作了《展示，一个寓言》、《韵律札记》以及《QQ的贡献》，她的作品大多文笔优雅，教育意义蕴藉深厚。





              1．农夫厨房里，立着一座半世纪之久的老钟，老钟从未向主人抱怨过什么。一年夏天，黎明时分，农夫全家起床的喧哗之前，钟突然停了。钟刚停，惊诧不已的钟的表盘（我们不妨认为这不过是个寓言）马上拉长了脸，钟的指针打算循原有路程迈步，却发现不过徒劳枉然；齿轮此刻也惊讶地静止不动；这边刻度量衡高高挂着，一声不吭。每位成员都想将过错归咎于他人，最终，表盘实施正规盘查，以求查明老钟停止的缘由，与此同时，时针、齿轮以及刻度量衡异口同声地表明自己的无辜清白。

        2．就在那时，钟摆下方传来极为微弱的一声滴答，那声音说道，“我主动坦白，我是钟表停止的唯一原因，考虑到在座各位，我愿意陈述自己的理由。原因很简单，我实在厌倦了滴答。”听到这话，又恰逢敲钟的节骨眼上，老钟顿时怒火中烧。“好一个懒惰钟摆！”表盘也大声叫着，同时扬起表盘嵌条。

        3．“太妙了！”钟摆反讥道，“对你来说，说说总是再容易不过，表盘夫人，大家看得都很清楚，究竟谁总是凌驾在我的头上？我要说的是，你总是指责别人懒惰！这点对你来说，简直太过容易。你一生无所事事，除了瞪眼看着别人的脸，厨房里发生的大小事情你只会袖手旁观，围观为乐。我请你想想，如果年复一年地像我这样不停地左摇右摆，你是否乐意被关在这黑暗笼子里度过一生？”

        4．“说到这一点，”表盘说，“难道不是特意为你安了个窗口，让你可以看到外面？”“那就索性说清楚吧，” 钟摆接着说，“虽然开了个窗口，这里可太黑了，我甚至不敢停顿片刻向外张望，再说，我实在厌倦了这种生活方式；如果你不计较的话，那我不妨说说，我对这份工作实在过于厌恶。今天早晨，我碰巧算了一下，接下来一天24小时内，我需要滴答多少次呀，你们上面诸位或许能给我报个准确数字。”

        5．擅长计算的分钟随即回答：“86400次。”“一点不错，”钟摆说，“那么，我希望大家注意，假若仅仅这点还不能使任何人疲惫至极，如果再将每天每月每年的数字翻倍累计，我对前途感到沮丧失望，感到累得无处可逃，这，难道还有什么奇怪吗？考虑到这些理由，犹豫再三，经过反复琢磨，我决定罢工。”

        6．钟摆诉苦时，表盘几乎无法保持它的沉稳表情，稍微定神恢复常态后，表盘开口了，“亲爱的钟摆先生，像你这样勤勉能干的人，竟然被突如其来的疲惫压垮，让人匪夷所思。在你任职期间，你的确做了大量工作，难道在座诸位不亦拼命干活？工作不亦将继续如此？尽管想到这点，我们或许都疲惫不堪，问题在于，继续做下去难道使我们疲惫不堪？你能否帮我个忙，再摆动滴答六七下，以证明我所言不虚？”



              7．按照正常的节奏，钟摆顺从地滴答了六次。“好了，”表盘接着说，“可否允许我向你提个问题？说到底，这样干活让你生烦讨厌？”“一点也不，”钟摆回答，“我抱怨的不是滴答六次，不是六十次，而是数以百万计的六次。”

        8．“很好，”表盘说道，“不过，你想一下，虽然，你或许考虑顷刻间需要一百万次滴答，其实你实施的唯有最初的一次，因为接下来，往往无论你摇摆多少，你的感觉总是滴答不停。”“一想到这点，我就眩晕得不行，我承认。”钟摆说。“那么，我希望，”表盘接着说，“我们大家立即各就各位，女仆们马上就该起床了，我们还在这无所事事地闲聊。”

        9．听到这话，从未有人指责自己工作轻巧的刻度量衡，纷纷竭尽全力地劝说钟摆继续干活，末了，大家看来意见达到统一，于是，齿轮们转动起来，时钟们开始踱步，钟摆也进入摇摆状态。为证实自己信用如一，钟摆滴答声与以前同样铿锵有力。初升太阳的光线，从厨房上的一处洞口流泻下来，红色阳光落满表盘的脸庞，表盘眉眼熠熠生辉，好像刚才什么事都不曾发生过。

        10．那天早晨，那位农夫走进厨房吃早饭，抬头看了看钟说，他的表，昨晚快了半小时。





        LESSON 34





THE DEATH OF THE FLOWERS


        花朵的死亡

        William Cullen Bryant (b. 1794, d. 1878) was born in Cummington, Mass. He entered Williams College at the age of sixteen, but was honorably dismissed at the end of two years. At the age of twenty-one he was admitted to the bar, and practiced his profession successfully for nine years. In 1826 he removed to New York, and became connected with the “Evening Post”—a connection which continued to the time of his death. His residence for more than thirty of the last years of his life was at Roslyn, Long Island. He visited Europe several times; and in 1849 he continued his travels into Egypt and Syria.

        In all his poems, Mr. Bryant exhibits a remarkable love for, and a careful study of, nature. His language, both in prose and verse, is always chaste, correct, and elegant. “Thanatopsis,” perhaps the best known of all his poems, was written when he was but nineteen. His excellent translations of the “Iliad” and the “Odyssey” of Homer and some of his best poems, were written after he had passed the age of seventy. He retained his powers and his activity till the close of his life.





         1. The melancholy days are come,

         The saddest of the year,

         Of wailing[10] winds, and naked woods,

         And meadows brown and sear[11].

         Heaped in the hollows of the grove

         The autumn leaves lie dead;

         They rustle to the eddying gust,

         And to the rabbit’s tread.

         The robin and the wren are flown,

         And from the shrubs the jay,

         And from the wood top calls the crow

         Through all the gloomy day.





         2. Where are the flowers, the fair young flowers,

         That lately sprang and stood

         In brighter light and softer airs,

         A beauteous sisterhood?

         Alas! they all are in their graves;

         The gentle race of flowers

         Are lying in their lowly beds

         With the fair and good of ours.

         The rain is falling where they lie;



               But the cold November rain

         Calls not from out the gloomy earth

         The lovely ones again.





         3. The windflower and the violet,

         They perished long ago,

         And the brier rose and the orchis died

         Amid the summer’s glow;

         But on the hill, the golden-rod,

         And the aster in the wood,

         And the yellow sunflower by the brook,

         In autumn beauty stood,

         Till fell the frost from the clear, cold heaven,

         As falls the plague on men,

         And the brightness of their smile was gone

         From upland, glade[12], and glen[13],





         4. And now, when comes the calm, mild day,

         As still such days will come,

         To call the squirrel and the bee

         From out their winter home;

         When the sound of dropping nuts is heard,

         Though all the trees are still,

         And twinkle in the smoky light

         The waters of the rill,

         The south wind searches for the flowers

         Whose fragrance late he bore,

         And sighs to find them in the wood

         And by the stream no more.





         5. And then I think of one, who in

         Her youthful beauty died,

         The fair, meek blossom that grew up

         And faded by my side.

         In the cold, moist earth we laid her,

         When the forest cast the leaf,

         And we wept that one so lovely

         Should have a life so brief;

         Yet not unmeet[14] it was that one,

         Like that young friend of ours,

         So gentle and so beautiful,

         Should perish with the flowers.




【中文阅读】

        威廉 · 卡伦 · 布莱恩特（1794～1878）出生于美国马萨诸塞州卡明顿。他16岁进入威廉姆斯学院，但两年后，被体面地要求离开。他21岁获得资格进入律师界，成功地从事律师职业长达9年。1826年，他迁到纽约，与《晚邮报》保持联系，并一直延续到他的生命结束。他在美国长岛罗斯林度过后半生30多年时光。布莱恩特曾游览欧洲数次，1849年，他继续去埃及和叙利亚旅行。在他所有的诗歌作品中，布莱恩特先生展示了对自然不同寻常的爱恋与缜密研究。他的语言，无论散文抑或诗歌，以其清纯、准确、优雅的风格为人称道。《死亡观》极可能是他诗歌的巅峰之作，当年创造这首诗时，他不过19岁。70岁后，他陆续完成系列优秀译作，包括荷马史诗《伊利亚特》和《奥德赛》，并创造了一些优秀诗歌。他保持旺盛的精力，坚持文学创造直至最后离世。





        1. 那些， 忧郁悲伤的日子来了，

        年复一年， 最为痛苦难捱，

        风在哀哭， 掠过光秃裸露的丛林，

        炙热尽舔，枯萎成片的草原，

        昔日绿意盈盈， 已经完成宿命，

        拥挤成团， 飘落在沟壑低洼，

        萧瑟秋风，卷起漫天尘土，

        不时遮住， 狡兔三窟巢穴，

        惊飞一群群，知更鸟鹪鹩。

        灌木林中，觅食栖息的松鸦，

        还有树梢上，戛然而止鸦阵，

        天空晦暗，阴冷列队飞来。





        2. 那些，美丽的花朵哪里去了？

        转眼间，不见了风中摇曳，

        明晃晃艳阳，微风和煦，

        呼朋唤友，千姿百媚地涌来。

        唉呀！纷纷扬扬的嫣红，

        悄然铺成，黑色连绵的花冢，

        卑微的花瓣们，匍匐在地，

        卷走人世间赞美祝福。

        雨声淅沥，扑打凋零的容颜，

        凄风冷雨，再亦难唤回

        从前，婀娜多姿的身影，

        沧浪那边，推不开鬼魅深重。





              3. 银莲花，还有紫罗兰，

        恍惚中，它们已离开很久，

        野蔷薇，玫瑰，红门兰，

        死在，骄阳如火的热烈。

        山路蜿蜒，金色的快乐枝条，

        森林里，笑容洋溢的紫菀，

        溪水边，明黄色向日葵，

        涂抹出，秋天的寥廓浪漫。

        严霜，很快搅起周天寒彻，

        犹如，世间肆虐的瘟疫，

        裹走了，那些欢歌笑语，

        寒风呼啸，魂魄从此飘散。





        4. 万物复苏，大地苏醒回暖，

        微风吹拂，阳光又现人间。

        春姑娘脚步，轻声呼唤，

        走出巢穴，冬眠者不再梦酣。

        每棵树木，伫立冬天的沉思，

        万籁静寂，松果落地的铮然，

        河水蜿蜒，流淌出潺潺快意，

        星光闪烁，烟波浩渺的水面。

        春风呵，你追着千花万朵寻来，

        哪一缕芬芳，寄寓内心企盼？

        长吁短叹，那清香竟来自灌丛，

        幽静河畔，花的踪迹早已杳然。





        5. 我想起，那位清纯少女，

        青春靓丽，尚未绽放的花蕾，

        亭亭玉立，羞赧迷人的笑脸，

        旋即枯萎，凋谢在我的身边。

        亲手将她葬进，冰冷潮湿的墓地，

        落叶为穹，无限惆怅倍添，

        长泣而痛，为何美丽短暂？

        红销香断，难道天妒红颜？

        青山逶迤，远走了你的笑容，

        绿水悠悠，流去了你的温柔，

        一缕相思，今朝无从寻觅，

        陌上花开，来年何以寄愁？





        LESSON 35





THE THUNDERSTORM


        暴 风 雨

        Washington Irving (b. 1783, d. 1859). This distinguished author, whose works have enriched American literature, was born in the city of New York. He had an ordinary school education, and began his literary career at the age of nineteen, by writing for a paper published by his brother. His first book, “Salmagundi,” was published in 1807. Two years later he published “Knickerbocker’s History of New York.” In 1815 he sailed for Europe, and remained abroad seventeen years, during which time he wrote several of his works. From 1842 to 1846 he was minister to Spain. The last years of his life were passed at “Sunnyside,” near Tarrytown, N.Y. He was never married. “The Life of Washington,” his last work, was completed in the same year in which he died. Mr. Irving’s works are characterized by humor, chaste sentiment, and elegance and correctness of expression. The following selection is from “Dolph” in “Bracehridge Hall.”





        1. In the second day of the voyage, they came to the Highlands. It was the latter part of a calm, sultry day, that they floated gently with the tide between these stern mountains. There was that perfect quiet which prevails over nature in the languor[15] of summer heat. The turning of a plank, or the accidental falling of an oar, on deck, was echoed from the mountain side and reverberated along the shores; and, if by chance the captain gave a shout of command, there were airy tongues that mocked it from every cliff.

        2. Dolph gazed about him, in mute delight and wonder, at these scenes of nature’s magnificence. To the left, the Dunderberg reared its woody precipices, height over height, forest over forest, away into the deep summer sky. To the right, strutted forth the bold promontory of Antony’s Nose, with a solitary eagle wheeling about it; while beyond, mountain succeeded to mountain, until they seemed to lock their arms together and confine this mighty rive in their embraces.

        3. In the midst of this admiration, Dolph remarked[16] a pile of bright, snowy clouds peering above the western heights. It was succeeded by another, and another, each seemingly pushing onward its predecessor[17], and towering, with dazzling brilliancy, in the deep blue atmosphere; and now muttering peals of thunder were faintly heard rolling behind the mountains. The river, hitherto still and glassy, reflecting pictures of the sky and land, now showed a dark ripple at a distance, as the wind came creeping up it. The fishhawks wheeled and screamed, and sought their nests on the high, dry trees; the crows flew clamorously[18] to the crevices of the rocks; and all nature seemed conscious of the approaching thunder gust.



              4. The clouds now rolled in volumes over the mountain tops; their summits still bright and snowy, but the lower parts of an inky blackness. The rain began to patter down in broad and scattered drops; the wind freshened, and curled up the waves; at length, it seemed as if the bellying[19] clouds were torn open by the mountain tops, and complete torrents of rain came rattling down. The lightning leaped from cloud to cloud, and streamed quivering against the rocks, splitting and rending the stoutest forest trees. The thunder burst in tremendous explosions; the peals were echoed from mountain to mountain; they crashed upon Dunderberg, and then rolled up the long defile[20] of the Highlands, each headland making a new echo, until old Bull Hill seemed to bellow back the storm.

        5. For a time the scudding rack[21] and mist and the sheeted rain almost hid the landscape from the sight. There was a fearful gloom, illumined still more fearfully by the streams of lightning which glittered among the raindrops. Never had Dolph beheld such an absolute warring of the elements[22]; it seemed as if the storm was tearing and rending its way through the mountain defile, and had brought all the artillery of heaven into action.


【中文阅读】

        华盛顿 · 欧文（1783～1859），出生于美国纽约市的著名作家，其作品极大丰富了美国文学宝库。欧文接受的是常规教育，他19岁时，开始写文章，其兄将其文章刊登报纸，由此开始他的文学生涯。他的首部作品《大杂烩》出版于1807年；两年后他推出新作《荷兰裔移民的纽约史》。1815年，欧文去欧洲旅行，滞留海外长达17年之久，在此期间，他完成数部作品。1842年至1846年，他出任美国驻西班牙公使，后来在纽约州塔利镇附近向阳坡度过生命中最后几年。欧文终生未婚，《华盛顿传》为他最后一部著作，当年作品封笔后，欧文离开人世。欧文先生作品蕴含幽默，素朴高雅，文辞表达准确优美。下文选自《布雷斯里奇庄园》一书中《道尔夫》章节。





        1．旅途第二天，他们抵达苏格兰高地。当时天近傍晚，无风、闷热。船儿顺流轻轻漂流，两岸森严的崇山峻岭绵亘延伸。天地陷入浓重的静谧。夏日无精打采，似乎耗尽了最后一缕炎热。船舷时而偏转，甲板上木浆偶然落水，哪怕一点细微声音，撞击山体后旋即沿山涧两岸依次荡开。如果碰巧船长扯开嗓子吆喝一声，四周峭壁很快炸响一连串滚动訇然。

        2．道尔夫出神地看着周遭如同淹没在远古洪荒中的自然奇观，内心满是无言的快乐，还有好奇。从左舷看，此刻，“邓德伯格号”船高竖前舷，径直冲过层层前方陡峭，飞快掠过两岸浓密丛林，进入更为幽深的夏日空寂。从右舷看，舷体凸出一块木牌，外形有点像安东尼的粗硕鼻子，木牌上刻有一只孤独的鹰，那只鹰正在快速不停地旋转。放眼望去，只见沿岸山峦叠嶂不断后退，最后，好像山穷水复疑无路，群峰兀立，头顶上唯有一道狭长蓝天。



              3．道尔夫忙着观幽探奇，突然看到一簇明晃晃的银色云团，在西方天际若隐若现，随后，又飘过来一簇云团，又涌来一团，不断叠现翻滚的云团逐次相推，直冲九天云汉，亦愈发炫目耀眼，背景天空现出阴晦的深蓝。倏尔，沉闷的雷声依稀裹杂响起，从山那边滚翻冒出。河水，恍然不知，一如既往地娴静；满目山川景色，在澄明如镜的一袭水面现出清晰倒影。很快，似乎闻到风的潜行气息，远处水域翻起黑色波浪。水面上，鱼鹰急速地盘旋尖叫，到处寻觅筑在山崖枯树上的鸟巢；乌鸦鼓噪地飞向峭崖绝壁的石隙里；自然万物无不惊悚，一场暴风雨顷刻来临。

        4．云层翻卷滚过道道山峦，峰顶明晃晃地刺眼，峰峦下端黢黑模糊连成一片。雨滴噼里啪啦地落下，溅起大朵水珠，风，愈发清新，腾起高耸连天的浪花，然后，不断隆升的云层仿佛被山尖猛地撕开，暴雨哗哗如注，搅动漫天倾盆。闪电从一朵云旋即跳到另一朵云上，它们锐利的触角颤抖着撞向四处岩壁，猛力撕扯劈开那些粗硕高大的树木。震耳欲聋的雷声不时炸开，悬崖绝壁上的訇声雷裂渐次放大，在峰回水转中迸发一串串巨响。轰鸣滚滚，扑打“邓德伯格号”船舷，然后越过半空苏格兰高地的狭长山谷，每逢凸崖，势必炸开新一轮力拔千钧，直到老牛山不停地哞哞吼叫，将暴风骤雨发狂地撵开。

        5．黑云催天压地，碎云疾驰穿梭，片状雨滴如泄似注从天而下，天地间几乎看不见手掌，周围一片可怕的混沌阴暗。刹那间，接二连三的闪电穿过雨点，迸出一道道刺目光亮，那么瘆人惨白、狰狞可怖。道尔夫从未目睹过如此怪异纷呈的天象，似乎暴风骤雨慌不择路，欲冲破山涧中那条峡谷，愣是凶猛异常地撕开一条血路。天上雷公电母前来相助，调遣麾下所有的天兵天将，将箭矢枪炮一应辎重悉数投入了战斗。





        LESSON 36





APRIL DAY


        四月的日子

        Caroline Anne Southey (b. 1786, d.1854), the second wife of Southey the poet, and better known as Caroline Bowles, was born near Lymington, Hampshire, England. Her first work, “Ellen Fitzarthur,” a poem, was published in 1820; and for more than twenty years her writings were published anonymously. In 1839 she was married to Mr. Southey, and survived him over ten years. Her poetry is graceful in expression, and full of tenderness, though somewhat melancholy. The following extract first appeared in 1822 in a collection entitled, “The Widow’s Tale, and other Poems.”





        1. All day the low-hung clouds have dropped

        Their garnered[23] fullness down;

        All day that soft, gray mist hath wrapped

        Hill, valley, grove, and town.





        2. There has not been a sound to-day

        To break the calm of nature;

        Nor motion, I might almost say,

        Of life or living creature;





        3. Of waving bough, or warbling bird,

        Or cattle faintly lowing;

        I could have half believed I heard

        The leaves and blossoms growing.





        4. I stood to hear—I love it well—

        The rain’s continuous sound;

        Small drops, but thick and fast they fell,

        Down straight into the ground.

        5. For leafy thickness is not yet

        Earth’s naked breast to screen,

        Though every dripping branch is set

        With shoots of tender green.





        6. Sure, since I looked, at early morn,

        Those honeysuckle buds

        Have swelled to double growth; that thorn



              Hath put forth larger studs[24].





        7. That lilac’s cleaving[25] cones have burst,

        The milk-white flowers revealing;

        Even now upon my senses first

        Methinks their sweets are stealing.





        8. The very earth, the steamy air,

        Is all with fragrance rife!

        And grace and beauty everywhere

        Are flushing into life.





        9. Down, down they come, those fruitful stores,

        Those earth-rejoicing drops!

        A momentary deluge pours,

        Then thins, decreases, stops.





        10. And ere the dimples[26] on the stream

        Have circled out of sight,

        Lo! from the west a parting gleam

        Breaks forth of amber[27] light.

        * * *

        11. But yet behold—abrupt and loud,

        Comes down the glittering rain;

        The farewell of a passing cloud,

        The fringes of its train.


【中文阅读】

        卡罗琳 · 安妮 · 骚塞(1786～1854)出生于英国汉普郡莱明敦附近，为诗人骚塞的第二任妻子，卡罗琳 · 鲍尔斯的名字更为人熟知。卡罗琳首部诗作《艾伦 · 菲茨瑟》出版于1820年。长达20多年来，她的作品一直匿名发表。1839年，她与骚塞先生结婚，使他得以延长10多年生命。卡罗琳诗歌言辞优雅，充满柔情，尽管不乏些许悲哀忧郁。下面段落来自最早发表在1822年出版的题为《寡妇故事及其诗歌》的诗歌集，有删节。





        1．低垂一天，云朵已经落下，

        农夫庄稼，亦已安然入仓。

        灰色雾霭，万般缱绻裹住，

        山丘沟谷，灌丛还有村庄。



              2．今天，我未曾听到那种声音，

        可以打破，自然万物的寂静；

        亦没听见，或许我可以说，

        漫长一天，没有生命的韵律。





        3．树干没有摇晃，鸟儿没有啭鸣，

        牛群，没有低声哞叫，

        枝叶生长，或者花朵绽开，

        我半信半疑，没有纹丝动静。





        4．默默站着聆听，我太爱这些声音，

        雨，接连不停地刷刷，

        碎细身影，密集落下，

        径直一跤，跌进土里长大。





        5．大地赤裸的胸膛，尚未舒展，

        绿叶沙沙，铺成天空的旗帜，

        此刻，每一根湿漉漉的枝干，

        都会萌发，植物的微观思考。





        6．曙光初露，美丽的金银花，

        星光点缀，骨朵又见丰满，

        含苞待放；亭亭玉立的枝杈，

        转眼冒出，深浅不一的嫩芽。





        7．紫丁香，风中绽放挺立，

        奶白色花朵，惊悚震撼，

        一瞥中感动，最是难抑，

        你的心中，流泻悠悠甜蜜。





              8．脚下大地，润泽丰盈，

        繁复优雅，竟是不期而遇，

        蛰伏精灵，一路暗香浮动，

        走过多少，金色生命年华。





        9．收割装仓，满囤的金子，

        欢快雨滴，大地交响奏鸣，

        刹那间，洪水翻滚泛滥，

        雨过天晴，禾苗萌发新绿。





        10．溪水淙淙，岁月流年的涟漪，

        穿梭奔涌，消失于远方天际，

        瞧！西边那缕离别的星光，

        隐约露出，金色琥珀的传奇。





        11．看呀！随着一声高喊，

        流星雨，划破天空消失，

        挥手作别，霓虹的云彩，

        裙裾飞扬，生命的斑斓花边。





        LESSON 37





THE TEA ROSE


        香水月季

        1. There it stood, in its little green vase, on a light ebony stand in the window of the drawing-room. The rich satin curtains, with their costly fringes, swept down on either side of it, and around it glittered every rare and fanciful trifle which wealth can offer to luxury, and yet that simple rose was the fairest of them all. So pure it looked, its white leaves just touched with that delicious, creamy tint peculiar to its kind: its cup so full, so perfect,its head bending, as if it were sinking and melting away in its own richness.—Oh! when did ever man make anything to equal the living, perfect flower!

        2. But the sunlight that streamed through the window revealed something fairer than the rose—a young lady reclining on an ottoman[28], who was thus addressed by her livelier cousin: “I say, cousin, I have been thinking what you are to do with your pet rose when you go to New York; as, to our consternation, you are determined to do. You know it would be a sad pity to leave it with such a scatter-brain as I am. I love flowers, indeed,—that is, I like a regular bouquet, cut off and tied up, to carry to a party; but as to all this tending and fussing which is needful to keep them growing, I have no gifts in that line.”

        3. “Make yourself easy as to that, Kate,” said Florence, with a smile; “I have no intention of calling upon your talent; I have an asylum[29] in view for my favorite.”

        4. “Oh, then you know just what I was going to say. Mrs. Marshall, I presume, has been speaking to you; she was here yesterday, and I was quite pathetic[30] upon the subject; telling her the loss your favorite would sustain, and so forth; and she said how delighted she would be to have it in her greenhouse; it is in such a fine state now, so full of buds. I told her I knew you would like to give it to her; you are so fond of Mrs. Marshall, you know.”

        5. “Now, Kate, I am sorry, but I have otherwise engaged.”

        “Whom can it be to? you have so few intimates here.”

        “Oh, it is only one of my odd fancies.”

        “But do tell me, Florence.”

        “Well, cousin, you know the little pale girl to whom we give sewing?”

        6. “What! little Mary Stephens? How absurd, Florence! This is just another of your motherly, old-maidish ways; dressing dolls for poor children, making bonnets, and knitting socks for all the little dirty babies in the neighborhood. I do believe you have made more calls in those two vile, ill-smelling alleys behind our house than ever you have in Chestnut Street, though you know everybody is half dying to see you; and now, to crown all, you must give this choice little bijou[31] to a seamstress girl, when one of your most intimate friends, in your own class, would value it so highly. What in the world can people in their circumstances[32] want with flowers?”





              7. “Just the same as I do,” replied Florence, calmly. “Have you not noticed that the little girl never comes without looking wistfully at the opening buds? And don’t you remember, the other morning she asked me so prettily if I would let her mother come and see it, she was so fond of flowers?”

        8. “But, Florence, only think of this rare flower standing on a table with ham, eggs, cheese, and flour, and stifled in that close little room, where Mrs. Stephens and her daughter manage to wash, iron, and cook.”

        9. “Well, Kate, and if I were obliged to live in one coarse room, and wash, and iron, and cook, as you say; if I had to spend every moment of my time in toil, with no prospect from my window but a brick wall and a dirty lane, such a flower as this would be untold enjoyment to me.”



              10. “Pshaw, Florence; all sentiment[33]! Poor people have no time to be sentimental. Besides, I don’t believe it will grow with them; it is a greenhouse flower, and used to delicate living.”

        11. “Oh, as to that, a flower never inquires whether its owner is rich or poor; and poor Mrs. Stephens, whatever else she has not, has sunshine of as good quality as this that streams through our window. The beautiful things that God makes are his gifts to all alike. You will see that my fair rose will be as well and cheerful in Mrs. Stephens’s room as in ours.”

        12. “Well, after all, how odd! When one gives to poor people, one wants to give them something useful—a bushel of potatoes, a ham, and such things.”

        13. “Why, certainly, potatoes and ham must be supplied; but, having ministered to the first and most craving wants, why not add any other little pleasures or gratifications we may have it in our power to bestow? I know there are many of the poor who have fine feeling and a keen sense of the beautiful, which rusts out and dies because they are too hard pressed to procure it any gratification. Poor Mrs. Stephens, for example; I know she would enjoy birds, and flowers, and music as much as I do. I have seen her eye light up as she looked upon these things in our drawing. room, and yet not one beautiful thing can she command[34]. From necessity, her room, her clothing,—all she has, must be coarse and plain. You should have seen the almost rapture[35] she and Mary felt when I offered them my rose.”

        14. “Dear me! all this may be true, but I never thought of it before. I never thought that these hard-working people had any ideas of taste[36]!”

        15. “Then why do you see the geranium or rose so carefully nursed in the old cracked teapot in the poorest room, or the morning-glory planted in a box and twined about the window? Do not these show that the human heart yearns[37] for the beautiful in all ranks of life? You remember, Kate, how our washerwoman sat up a whole night, after a hard day’s work, to make her first baby a pretty dress to be baptized in.” “Yes, and I remember how I laughed at you for making such a tasteful little cap for it.”

        16. “True, Kate, but I think the look of perfect delight with which the poor woman regarded her baby in its new dress and cap was something quite worth creating; I do believe she could not have felt more grateful if 1 had sent her a barrel of flour.”

        17. “Well, I never thought before of giving anything to the poor but what they really needed, and I have always been willing to do that when I could without going far out of my way.”

        18. “Ah! cousin, if our heavenly Father gave to us after this mode, we should have only coarse, shapeless piles of provisions lying about the world, instead of all this beautiful variety of trees, and fruits, and flowers,”

        19. “Well, well, cousin, I suppose you are right, but have mercy on my poor head; it is too small to hold so many new ideas all at once, so go on your own way;” and the little lady began practicing a waltzing step before the glass with great satisfaction.



                              [1]Instituted, commenced, began.



                      [2]Protested, solemnly declared.



                      [3]Calculating, reckoning, computing.



                      [4]Prospect, anticipation, that to which one looks forward.



                      [5]Harangue, speech.



                      [6]Illustrate, to make clear, to exemplify.



                      [7]Exertion, effort.



                      [8]Execute, to complete, to finish.



                      [9]Consideration, reason.



                      [10]Wailing, lamenting, mourning.



                      [11]Sear, dry, withered.



                      [12]Glade, an open place in the forest.



                      [13] Glen, a valley, a dale.



                      [14]Unmeet, improper, unfitting.



                      [15]Languor, exhaustion of strength, dullness.



                      [16]Remarked, noticed, observed.



                      [17]Predecessor, the one going immediately before.



                      [18]Clamorously, with a loud noise.



                      [19]Bellying, swelling out.



                      [20]Defile, a long, narrow pass.



                      [21]Rack, thin, flying, broken clouds.



                      [22]Elements, a term usually including fire, water, earth, and air.



                      [23]Garnered, laid up, treasured.



                      [24]Studs, knobs, buds.



                      [25]Cleaving, dividing.



                      [26]Dimples, small depressions.



                      [27]Amber, the color of amber, yellow.



                      [28]Ottoman, a stuffed seat without a back.



                      [29]Asylum, a place of refuge and protection.



                      [30]Pathetic, moving to pity or grief.



                      [31]Bijou, a jewel.



                      [32]Circumstances, condition in regard to worldly property.



                      [33]Sentimental, showing an excess of sentiment or feeling.



                      [34]Command, to claim.



                      [35]Rapture, extreme joy or pleasure, ecstasy.



                      [36]Taste, the faculty of discerning beauty or whatever forms excellence.



                      [37]Yearns, longs, is eager.





【中文阅读】

        1．客厅窗边，一个浅乌檀色的花架上，一枝月季插在小小的绿色花瓶里。昂贵的锦缎窗帘，配着昂贵的窗饰挂幔垂落。房间里，到处摆满了亮闪闪的稀罕物件，满目珠光宝气，满屋奢贵豪华。那支香水月季当属鹤立鸡群，素朴中透着清纯可爱，奶白色精致叶瓣，稀有品种的色泽，它的花瓣饱满精致，花朵稍微前倾，宛如沉浸一种天籁富足的天地。哦，人类何时亦能创造出这类精美生物？

        2．阳光泻过窗帘，香水月季旁边更为亮眼。一位年轻女子斜倚在无背沙发上，活泼可爱的表妹正在与她聊天，“哦，表姐，我一直在想，如果你去纽约，怎么处理你那宝贝月季？大家很吃惊，你怎么坚持要走。你要知道，把你钟爱的花留给我这样一个总爱丢三落四的主儿，可真够倒霉的。我当然喜欢花，或换句话说，我偏爱那些修剪扎好后、风风光光捧去参加聚会的花。这种花那么娇嫩，每天打理起来烦不胜烦，我才没有兴趣哩。”

        3．“凯特，别那么紧张，”弗罗伦丝笑着说，“我可不指望你有那本事，我这有些救急的办法，你不妨查查。”

        4．“哦，那么，你就明白我准备说什么了。我在揣摩马歇尔夫人与你说话的意思。她昨天来这里了，谈到你要离开，我就很难过，还与她谈些不忍美好流失的道理等等；她说，如果香水月季能送给她，挪到她家花房，她可就太开心了。眼看花快开了，花苞这么多，我告诉她，我知道你打算将花送给她，再说，你对马歇尔夫人那么好，是吗？”

        5．“哦，凯特，很抱歉，我还在想其他办法。”

        “还会是谁？你在这没什么密友吧。”

        “哦，不过是个奇怪想法吧。”

        “那，弗罗伦丝，你得告诉我。”

        “好吧，表妹，你还记得我们送缝活时，那个脸色苍白的小姑娘吗？”

        6．“什么？你说的是玛丽·斯蒂芬？弗罗伦丝，你太搞笑了！你婆婆妈妈、古板迂腐的另外一张面孔竟然是这样，什么给穷孩子缝娃娃啦，缝制帽子，钩织袜子啦，给街坊四邻那些脏兮兮的孩子送点礼物什么的。我确实相信，你在我们屋后那两条臭味难闻的街巷里走家串户，比你在宽敞漂亮的栗树大街上做得多，虽然你知道，那些穷人眼巴巴地想见到你。既然这样，给所有穷人都戴上皇冠？借机再给那个做缝活小姑娘送件小玩意，你那些同阶层的闺蜜好友，或许极为赞赏这些，我实在搞不懂，生活在世上如此低劣环境里的人难道需要花？”



              7．“这正是我想做的，”弗罗伦丝平心静气地说，“你难道没注意到，那小姑娘哪次来不是急切地想看花？你难道不记得，那天早晨，她那么可怜见地请求我，可否让她妈妈过来看看香水月季？她母亲也那么喜欢花！”

        8.“哎呀，弗罗伦丝，先想想，这么名贵的月季和那些火腿呀，鸡蛋，奶酪，还有面粉，统统挤在那间狭窄破屋的小桌上，斯蒂芬夫人和女儿兜转着忙着洗涮、熨烫，还要做饭。”

        9．“好了，凯特，如果我也没办法，只好住在简陋的破屋，就像你说的，忙着洗涮、熨烫、做饭，如果没有片刻空闲，窗外满眼只有颓败坍塌的砖墙，肮脏不堪的街巷，对我来说，这花难道不是无法言说的快乐？”

        10．“哼，弗罗伦丝，你太多愁善感了！穷人怎么有时间获取情感快乐。我才不相信呐，那香水月季能在她们家里养下去？那名贵的花是种在温室里的，月季对环境可是太挑剔了。”

        11．“哦，这一点，花朵从不会质问它的主人贫穷还是富有；史蒂芬夫人很穷，她缺少什么无关紧要，只要拥有和这里同样可以穿透窗子的美好阳光，那就够了。上帝创造出来的美好事物，在于它给予所有人相同的馈赠。你会看见，我那漂亮的香水月季在斯蒂芬夫人家里肯定会长得不错，与在我们家没什么两样。”



        12．“好了，不管怎么说，你真够搞怪！如果想送穷人东西，送点实用的东西总是不错，比如，一麻袋土豆，或一条火腿什么的。”

        13．“天呀！确实，土豆或火腿都是不可少的，那是穷人生存的首选或最渴望得到的东西，可是，我们为什么就不能给穷人精神上的微薄快乐，使她们内心获得少许喜悦，而这些，对我们来说不过举手之劳？我知道，许多穷人情感丰富，对美好事物相当敏锐，可他们活得实在艰难，也就自然钝化或磨灭了内在美好。否则，就鸟类花草或音乐欣赏能力而言，史蒂芬夫人，虽穷，亦绝不比我少。

        我留意到，那次斯蒂芬夫人来到我们家，仔细打量客厅里那些艺术摆件，尽管没说一句话，可她的眼睛很亮。你看看她家的陋屋、那些衣物还有居家必需品，当然杂乱不堪。你也该看到，当我想说把香水月季送给她们，她和女儿玛丽几乎欣喜若狂。”

        14．“天呀！这些或许不假，不过，我以前从未想到这些，这些每天苦力劳作的穷人能有什么欣赏品位。”

        15．“那么，为什么那些穷家陋户的破漏茶壶或瓦罐里，居然还种着天竺葵或月季，或者木箱里还养着牵牛花，沿窗户向上缠绕攀爬？这些难道不是说明，不管人的职业高贵或低下，人们内心难道不是同样渴望美？追求美？凯特，你还记得，有一次，我们家洗衣女工干了一天活回到家，为了第二天的洗礼仪式，通宵达旦地为孩子缝制新裙子吗？”“是的，记得，那时我还嘲笑你，费心劳神地做那么雅致的婴儿帽。”



              16．“不错，凯特，漂亮的外貌当然使人愉悦，那可怜女人觉得，只要她的孩子能穿上新衣、戴上新帽，她付出一些辛苦当然值得，我更相信，如果那时我再送上一把鲜花，在她看来，不管怎样感激涕零，都难以表达她的心情。”

        17．“是的，我以前从未想到周济穷人，除非他们确实需要，虽然，我一直想做力所能及的善事，却不愿偏离自己直觉太远。”

        18．“哎呀！表妹，倘若天堂的圣父亦依据这种方式馈赠我们，那么在这个世界上，或许，我们只有那些粗鄙不堪或乱七八糟的东西，而不会类似现在，那些花草、树木以及果实等等的美丽组合。”

        19.“得了，得了，表姐，我觉得你说得都对，发发慈悲，饶过我这不开窍的可怜脑瓜，怎能转眼装下那么多新鲜念头，你还是忙你的去吧。”接着，对着镜子，小姑娘悠然自得地练习华尔兹舞步起来。





        LESSON 38





THE CATARACT OF LODORE


        洛多大瀑布

        1. “How does the water

        Come down at Lodore?”

        My little boy asked me

        Thus once on a time;

        And, moreover, he tasked me

        To tell him in rhyme.





        2. Anon at the word,

         There first came one daughter,

         And then came another,

        To second and third

         The request of their brother,

        And to hear how the water

         Comes down at Lodore,

        With its rush and its roar,

         As many a time

        They had seen it before.





        3. So I told them in rhyme,

         For of rhymes I had store,

        And ’t was in my vocation

        For their recreation

        That so I should sing;

        Because I was Laureate

        To them and the King.





        4. From its sources which well

        In the tarn[1] on the fell[2];

        From its fountains

        In the mountains,

        Its rills and its gills[3];

         Through moss and through brake,

        It runs and it creeps



              For a while, till it sleeps

        In its own little lake.





        5. And thence at departing,

         Awakening and starting,

         It runs through the reeds,

         And away it proceeds,

         Through meadow and glade,

         In sun and in shade,

         And through the wood shelter,

         Among crags in its flurry,

         Helter-skelter,

        Hurry-skurry.





        6. Here it comes sparkling,

        And there it lies darkling;

        Now smoking and frothing

        Its tumult and wrath in,

        Till, in this rapid race

        On which it is bent,

        It reaches the place

        Of its steep descent.





        7. The cataract strong

        Then plunges along,

        Striking and raging

        As if a war waging

        Its caverns and rocks among;





        8. Rising and leaping,

        Sinking and creeping,

        Swelling and sweeping,

        Showering and springing,

        Flying and flinging,

        Writhing and ringing,

        Eddying and whisking,

        Spouting and frisking,

        Turning and twisting,

        Around and around

        With endless rebound;

        Smiting and fighting,

        A sight to delight in;

        Confounding, astounding,

        Dizzying, and deafening the ear with its sound





        9. Collecting, projecting,

        Receding and speeding,



               And shocking and rocking,

         And darting and parting,

         And threading and spreading,

         And whizzing and hissing,

         And dripping and skipping,

         And hitting and splitting,

         And shining and twining,

         And rattling and battling,

         And shaking and quaking,

         And pouring and roaring,

         And waving and raving,

         And tossing and crossing,

         And guggling and struggling,

         And heaving and cleaving,

         And moaning and groaning,

         And glittering and frittering,

         And gathering and feathering,

         And whitening and brightening,

         And quivering and shivering,

         And hurrying and skurrying,

         And thundering and floundering;

        10.Dividing and gliding and sliding,

         And falling and brawling[4] and sprawling,

         And driving and riving[5] and striving,

         And sprinkling and twinkling and wrinkling;





        11.And thumping and plumping and bumping and jumping,

        And dashing and flashing and splashing and clashing;

         And so never ending, but always descending,

         Sounds and motions forever and ever are blending,

        All at once and all o’er, with a mighty uproar,

        And this way the water comes down at Lodore.





        (Abridged from Southey.)


【中文阅读】

        1．“洛多瀑布的水，

        怎么落下的呢？”

        曾经一次，

        年幼的儿子问我，



              甚至特别要求，

        用韵律节奏告诉他。





        2．此后不久，

        女儿也有如此疑问，

        三个妹妹，

        走马灯地询问哥哥，

        当时，那瀑布的水，

        究竟如何落下。

        水吼叫着，直冲而下，

        许多许多次，

        大人们以前看过。





        3．我用诗歌节奏描述，

        那心底珍藏的韵律，

        留存于昔日旅程中，

        跌宕起伏的过去，

        我应该放开歌喉，

        将桂冠诗人的吟颂，

        告诉孩子，献与上帝。





        4．洛多瀑布老家，坐落在

        嶙峋多石的山顶，小湖边，

        山间，泉眼潺潺，

        淙淙流淌，汇成叮咚溪河，

        流过满山青苔、树丛，

        时快，时缓，过了一会，

        落脚到，雍积的小湖，

        它，居然睡着了。





        5．苏醒后，它再度启程，

        蜿蜒走过，芦苇沼泽，

        一路上，川流不息，

        流经草地，灌丛空旷，

        阳光下，或森林蓊郁，

        面对悬崖峭壁，掀起



              湍流急浪，仓皇惊慌地

        奏起，杂乱无序的乐章。





        6．那股黑暗中光亮，奔泻而来，

        不再低调，迸发张扬，

        雾气漫天，浪花飞溅，

        酝酿着。骚动，呼啸愤怒，

        积聚最后，爆发出千钧力量，

        直到，快步赶到这里，

        弯起身躯，从陡峭悬崖上，

        腾空飞起，骤然跃下。





        7．湍急洪流，磅礴而来，

        天堑处，撞击疯狂，

        龙腾虎跃，訇然雷动，

        犹如，战争中万炮齐发，

        在山中，无数洞穴石窟炸响。





        8．它在攀升、跨跃，

        速降、蠕行，

        它在膨胀、席卷，

        飞泻，遽起，

        它在飞翔、横扫，

        翻扭、迂回，

        它在旋转、掠动，

        喷泄、 蹦跶，

        它在回旋、纠结，

        百折千转，千转百折，

        永无止境，撒开弹射。

        它在袭击，在阻击，

        铺开，汹涌澎湃的浩荡，

        它在挫败，在震颤，

        发起，耳聋目眩的较量；

        不嫌涓流，经久凸变，

        悄悄减慢，兀自加速，

        时而打击，或者摇撼，



              时而猛冲，或者断裂，

        时而践踏，或者舒展，

        飕飕狂飙，徐徐低缓；





         9．无声渗漏，欢呼雀跃，

        重锤撞击，刀戟劈开，

        晶莹夺目，藤缠枝绕，

        喋喋不休，天崩地裂，

        趔趄晃荡，声撼山摇，

        万马奔涌，虎啸平川

        波浪起伏，凌空漫舞，

        辗转摇晃，乖戾叵测，

        碎语绵绵，雷霆万钧，

        扼腕之叹，裂帛之惊，

        悲泣呻吟，抱怨哀鸣，

        闪闪泛亮，粼粼碎屑，

        聚拢收缩，羽化飞天，

        湍流涡旋，银光耀眼，

        天地悸动，惊悚山川，

        仓促匆忙，紧锣密鼓，

        电闪雷鸣，跋涉艰难，

        分叉，滑翔，不断变异，

        跌落，嚎叫，到处蔓生，

        驱赶，撕裂，抗争不息，

        雾漫，影动，波光潋滟；





        11．捶击，坠落，碰撞，凌空展翅，

        泼溅，迸闪，喷射，铿锵有声，

        飞流直下，奔泻穿梭，

        那些所有声音与运动，交融汇聚，

        伴随巨大的喧嚣，戛然而止。

        这就是，洛多瀑布，

        一条涅槃再生之路。





        （骚塞诗集节选）





        LESSON 39





THE BOBOLINK


        北美食米鸟

        1. The happiest bird of our spring, however, and one that rivals the European lark in my estimation, is the boblincoln, or bobolink as he is commonly called. He arrives at that choice portion of our year which, in this latitude, answers to the description of the month of May so often given by the poets. With us it begins about the middle of May, and lasts until nearly the middle of June. Earlier than this, winter is apt to return on its traces, and to blight the opening beauties of the year; and later than this, begin the parching, and panting, and dissolving heats of summer. But in this genial interval, Nature is in all her freshness and fragrance: “the rains are over and gone, the flowers appear upon the earth, the time of the singing of birds is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard in the land.”

        2. The trees are now in their fullest foliage and brightest verdure; the woods are gay with the clustered flowers of the laurel; the air is perfumed with the sweetbrier and the wild rose; the meadows are enameled[6] with clover blossoms; while the young apple, peach, and the plum begin to swell, and the cherry to glow among the green leaves.

        3. This is the chosen season of revelry of the bobolink. He comes amid the pomp and fragrance of the season; his life seems all sensibility[7] and enjoyment, all song and sunshine. He is to be found in the soft bosoms of the freshest and sweetest meadows, and is most in song when the clover is in blossom. He perches on the topmost twig of a tree, or on some long, flaunting weed, and, as he rises and sinks with the breeze, pours forth a succession of rich, tinkling notes, crowding one upon another, like the outpouring melody of the skylark, and possessing the same rapturous character.

        4. Sometimes he pitches from the summit of a tree,begins his song as soon as he gets upon the wing, and flutters tremulously down to the earth, as if overcome with ecstasy at his own music. Sometimes he is in pursuit of his mate; always in full song, as if he would win her by his melody; and always with the same appearance of intoxication and delight. Of all the birds of our groves and meadows, the bobolink was the envy of my boyhood. He crossed my path in the sweetest weather, and the sweetest season of the year, when all nature called to the fields, and the rural feeling throbbed in every bosom; but when I, luckless urchin! was doomed to be mewed[8] up, during the live-long day, in a schoolroom.

        5. It seemed as if the little varlet[9] mocked at me as he flew by in full song, and sought to taunt me with his happier lot. Oh, how I envied him! No lessons, no task, no school; nothing but holiday, frolic, green fields, and fine weather. Had I been then more versed[10] in poetry, I might have addressed him in the words of Logan[11] to the cuckoo:





        “Sweet bird, thy bower is ever green,

        Thy sky is ever clear;

        Thou hast no sorrow in thy song,

        No winter in thy year.





        “Oh. could I fly, I’d fly with thee!

        We’d make, with joyful wing,

        Our annual visit o’er the globe,

        Companions of the spring.”





        6. Further observation and experience have given me a different idea of this feathered voluptuary[12], which I will venture to impart for the benefit of my young readers, who may regard him with the same unqualified envy and admiration which I once indulged. I have shown him only as I saw him at first, in what I may call the poetical part of his career, when he, in a manner, devoted himself to elegant pursuits and enjoyments, and was a bird of music, and song, and taste, and sensibility, and refinement. While this lasted he was sacred from injury; the very schoolboy would not fling a stone at him, and the merest rustic would pause to listen to his strain.

        7. But mark the difference. As the year advances, as the clover blossoms disappear, and the spring fades into summer, he gradually gives up his elegant tastes and habits, doffs his poetical suit of black, assumes a russet, dusty garb, and sinks to the gross enjoyment of common vulgar birds. His notes no longer vibrate on the ear; he is stuffing himself with the seeds of the tall weeds on which he lately swung and chanted so melodiously. He has become a bon vivant[13], a gourmand[14]: with him now there is nothing like the “joys of the table.” In a little while he grows tired of plain, homely fare, and is off on a gastronomic[15] tour in quest of foreign luxuries.

        8. We next hear of him, with myriads of his kind, banqueting among the reeds of the Delaware, and grown corpulent[16] with good feeding. He has changed his name in traveling. Boblincoln no more, he is the reedbird now, the much-sought-for tidbit of Pennsylvanian epicures[17], the rival in unlucky fame of the ortolan[18]! Wherever he goes, pop! pop! pop! every rusty firelock in the country is blazing away. He sees his companions falling by thousands around him. Does he take warning and reform? Alas! not he. Again he wings his flight. The rice swamps of the south invite him. He gorges himself among them almost to bursting; he can scarcely fly for corpulency. He has once more changed his name, and is now the famous ricebird of the Carolinas. Last stage of his career: behold him spitted with dozens of his corpulent companions, and served up, a vaunted[19] dish, on some southern table.



              9. Such is the story of the bobolink; once spiritual, musical, admired, the joy of the meadows, and the favorite bird of spring; finally, a gross little sensualist, who expiates[20] his sensuality in the larder[21]. His story contains a moral worthy the attention of all little birds and little boys; warning them to keep to those refined and intellectual pursuits which raised him to so high a pitch of popularity during the early part of his career, but to eschew[22] all tendency to that gross and dissipated indulgence which brought this mistaken little bird to an untimely end.

         —From Irving’s “Birds of Spring.”


【中文阅读】

        1．依我看来，可以和欧洲云雀媲美、北美春天最快乐的鸟，该是北美食米鸟，食米鸟为北美人习惯俗称。就地理纬度而言，食米鸟通常五月出现，诗人在五月的季节抒怀与之呼应，人们钟爱的五月阳光最终光临。大约五月中旬，食米鸟飞来，盘桓此地将近一月。早些的冬天季节，人们易于勘查食米鸟的踪迹，然而，肆意的覆巢行为意味摧毁一年的美好开局。再晚些日子，天气炙热焦干，让人简直喘不过气来，老天仿佛释放出夏季的所有热量。只有五月气候凉爽适宜，大自然袒露出每一朵的清新芬芳，“雨季结束了，花朵绽放，鸟儿鸣啾，海龟也爬上岸来。”

        2．满树叶片蓊郁得碧绿晃眼，森林里洋溢着月桂花朵的成簇欢乐；蔷薇和野生玫瑰的芬芳浓郁；草地上铺满苜蓿草花朵，瓷釉般亮丽，苹果梨子还有李子的青嫩果实正在急遽地胀大，绿叶中草莓但见猩红艳丽点点。

        3．食米鸟狂欢的季节来临，这是它们翩翩飞来的隆重庆典，穿梭在馥郁花海的盛大节日。食米鸟一生追逐快乐、追逐阳光，情感丰富，引吭高歌。它乐于栖息在水丰草美的牧场或草原。当苜蓿绽开细碎的花朵，它总喜欢在花丛里鸣啾歌唱。它时而亦会伫立高高树枝，或风中招摇的细长草尖。它随着微风雀跃腾飞，流泻出一连串美妙音符，佩铃叮当。它清脆的鸣啾此起彼伏，宛如云雀的清脆歌喉，充满狂性和热烈的质感。



              4．食米鸟常常落在树梢，一旦梳理好翅膀，便开始亮开歌喉，它不时朝地面猛力拍打双翼，仿佛在自己歌声里陶醉忘形；它自然喜欢追求配偶，开口吟唱那些高亢曲调，好像唯有音欤相求，才能获取配偶芳心，当然，它那一副陶醉自得的快乐神情让人忍俊不禁。北美森林莽莽草原上所有鸟类，食米鸟是我孩提时代最为嫉妒的鸟。在一年中最美好的季节里，气候适宜，它在我漫步的小路上穿梭飞行。当自然万物声声呼唤田野，当田园情愫在每一个生命的心中悸动，可我，一个不幸的孩子，每天却被牢牢地囚禁在教室里。

        5．这个看起来像恶棍的家伙，放开歌喉从我身边飞过，它唱得那么开心，似乎伺机嘲笑我。哦，我嫉妒死它了！没有功课，没有作业，没有学校，除了假期、嬉戏、绿色田野及美妙气候，它真是一无所有。假如我具有更多的诗歌才华，原本可将诗人洛根送给杜鹃鸟的赞誉送给它。





        甜蜜的鸟儿，

        你的巢穴四季常青，

        天空那么清澈湛蓝，

        你的岁月没有漫长冬季

        你的歌声没有丝毫悲伤，





        哦，如果我能张开翅膀，

        和你一起比翼飞翔。

        鼓起幸福的双翼，

        一年一度，和春天做伴，

        完成飞越环球的梦想。





        6．经过进一步观察体验，对这个身披羽裳、耽于安逸享乐的主儿，我有了全新认识，鉴于年轻读者的需要，我乐于勇敢地传教。这些年轻人可能与我当时沉湎的感觉相同，那么嫉妒和赞赏食米鸟。当第一眼看到它，我便为之心颤，称它具有生命的诗意。从某种意义上说，食米鸟追求高雅以及享受的表达，它迷恋音乐、歌声，关注品位、敏感还有精致，因此，这种神圣的鸟类不容丝毫伤害，甚至学校那些淘气鬼们不会冲它投掷石块，淳朴的农民时而停下脚步聆听它歌唱。

        7．当然，不妨关注这些差异。随着光阴流逝，苜蓿草花儿凋谢，春天隐退，夏天到来，食米鸟不再执著于自己的高雅品位，它逐渐褪去诗意的黑色装束，换上赤褐色的粗鄙外表；它整日沉溺享受安乐，与那些常见的恶俗鸟儿没什么两样；它的歌唱不再悦耳，胃囊里也装满草籽，就在那些飞扬的野草上，它刚才还在摇晃着优美身躯，反复吟唱动听的歌谣。如今它过得很好，气色不错，不过饕餮之徒而已。很快，它便厌倦了简朴的生活方式，到处寻觅丰馔珍肴，对它来说，没有任何东西能比过享用美食大餐的受用。



              8．现在我们再度聆听，它与它的无数同类，穿梭在特拉华州的芦苇丛中，因饮食太好愈见臃肿不堪。旅途中，它更换了名字，不叫食米鸟，改称芦苇鸟了，居然成为宾夕法尼亚州最受热捧的小报趣闻，与伊壁鸠鲁享乐者们享有同等恶名。无论食米鸟飞到哪里，砰！砰！砰！全州老枪火钪争相对准它瞄准开火，成千上万只食米鸟不停地倒毙死亡。那么，它接受人们警告或者有所改变吗？哎呀！没有。食米鸟继续振动双翼，南方丰美稻田等待着它的光临。在那里，食米鸟狼吞虎咽险乎撑死，它的体态变得臃肿不堪，甚至无法飞起。它不得不再次更名，变成卡罗莱纳州闻名遐迩的稻米鸟，这里，将是它一生的最后舞台：看着自己与无数大腹便便的同类被唾弃，最后变成北美大陆南方餐桌上为人称道的一道烘烤大餐。

        9．这就是食米鸟的故事，曾经具有精神信仰、富有音乐气质、令人钦佩、追逐自然草原快乐、钟爱春天蓬勃的鸟儿，最终变异为恶俗拥趸，躲在角落里耽于世俗物质享受的恶鸟。

        这篇食米鸟的故事具有典型的道德意义，世上青少年需引以为戒。故事旨在告诫那些年轻人，必须恪守对美好事物与崇高精神的执著坚守，保持懵懂之初纯洁的品质高度，戒绝世俗世界声色犬马的物欲满足。无疑，致命的外在诱惑只会给迷途难返的年轻生命带来过早的凋谢与终结。





        （摘自欧文《春天的鸟儿》）





        LESSON 40





ROBERT OF LINCOLN


        罗伯特·林肯

        1. Merrily swinging on brier and weed,

        Near to the nest of his little dame,

        Over the mountain side or mead,

        Robert of Lincoln is telling his name:

         “Bobolink, bobolink,

         Spink, spank, spink.

        Snug and safe is that nest of ours.

        Hidden among the summer flowers.

        Chee, chee, chee.”





        2. Robert of Lincoln is gaily dressed,

        Wearing a bright black wedding coat:

        White are his shoulders, and white his crest,

        Hear him call in his merry note:

         “Bobolink, bobolink,

         Spink, spank, spink,

        Look what a nice new coat is mine;

        Sure, there was never a bird so fine.

        Chee, chee, chee.”





        3. Robert of Lincoln’s Quaker wife,

        Pretty and quiet, with plain brown wings,

        Passing at home a patient life,

        Broods in the grass while her husband sings:

         “Bobolink, bobolink,

         Spink, spank, spink,

        Brood, kind creature; you need not fear

        Thieves and robbers while I am here.

        Chee, chee, chee.”





        4. Modest and shy as a nun is she,

        One weak chirp is her only note;

        Braggart and prince of braggarts is he,

        Pouring boasts from his little throat:

         “Bobolink, Bobolink,

         Spink, spank, spink,

        Never was I afraid of man,



              Catch me, cowardly knaves, if you can.

        Chee, chee, chee.”





        5. Six white eggs on a bed of hay,

        Flecked with purple, a pretty sight!

        There as the mother sits all day,

        Robert is singing with all his might:

         “Bobolink, bobolink,

         Spink, spank, spink,

        Nice good wife that never goes out,

        Keeping house while I frolic about.

        Chee, chee, chee.”





        6. Soon as the little ones chip the shell,

        Six wide mouths are open for food;

        Robert of Lincoln bestirs him well,

        Gathering seeds for the hungry brood..

         “Bobolink, bobolink,

         Spink, spank, spink,

        This new life is likely to be

        Hard for a gay young fellow like me.

        Chee, chee, chee.”





        7. Robert of Lincoln at length is made

        Sober with work, and silent with care;

        Off is his holiday garment laid,

        Half forgotten that merry air:

         “Bobolink, bobolink,

         Spink, spank, spink,

        Nobody knows but my mate and I

        Where our nest and our nestlings lie.

        Chee, chee, chee.”





        8. Summer wanes; the children are grown;

        Fun and frolic no more he knows;

        Robert of Lincoln’s a humdrum crone;

        Off he flies, and we sing as he goes:

         “Bobolink, bobolink,

         Spink, spank, spink,

        When you can pipe that merry old strain,

        Robert of Lincoln, come back again.

        Chee, chee, chee.”

        (William Cullen Bryant)



                              [1]Tarn, a small lake among the mountains.



                      [2]Fell , a stony hill.



                      [3]Gills, brooks.



                      [4]Brawling, roaring.



                      [5]Riving, splitting.



                      [6]Enameled, coated with a smooth, glossy surface.



                      [7]Sensibility, feeling.



                      [8]Mewed, shut up.



                      [9]Varlet, a rascal.



                      [10]Versed, familiar, practiced.



                      [11]John Logan (b. 1748, d.1788). A Scotch writer of note. His writings include dramas, poetry, history, and essays.



                      [12]Voluptuary, one who makes his bodily enjoyment his chief object.



                      [13]Bon vivant, one who lives well.



                      [14]Gourmand, a glutton.



                      [15]Gastronomic, relating to the science of good eating.



                      [16]Corpulent, fleshy, fat.



                      [17]Epicure, one who indulges in the luxuries of the table.



                      [18] The ortolan is a small bird, abundant in southern Europe, Cyprus, and Japan. It is fattened for the table, and is considered a great delicacy.



                      [19]Vaunted, boasted.



                      [20] Expiates, atones for.



                      [21]Larder, a pantry.



                      [22]Eschew, to shun.





【中文阅读】

        1．在荆棘野草上，欢快地荡着秋千，

        身边，娇小雌鸟的窝，

        飞过山脊或草地，

        罗伯特 · 林肯呼唤自己名字，

        “食米鸟，食米鸟，

        斯宾克，斯潘克，斯宾克，

        我们的窝安全又舒适，

        藏在夏季花丛间，

        唧，唧，唧。”





        2．罗伯特 · 林肯盛装华丽，

        黑色燕尾服闪亮夺目，

        雪白的肩饰和顶冠，

        它在空中尽情欢唱，

        “食米鸟，食米鸟，

        斯宾克，斯潘克，斯宾克，

        瞧！我这漂亮的新外套，

        别的鸟儿怎能比得上，

        唧，唧，唧。”





        3．那可爱宁静的雌鸟，

        不时扑闪灰褐色双翼，

        安心静卧于温暖鸟巢，

        精心地孵化它的宝贝，

        旁边，它的夫君歌声相伴，

        “食米鸟，食米鸟，

        斯宾克，斯潘克，斯宾克，

        可爱的孩子，别害怕，



              小偷，还有强盗，哪个敢来？

        唧，唧，唧。”





        4．雌鸟羞涩得像位修女，

        偶尔低声地唧喳两声，

        夫君却是自吹自擂的王子，

        颇为自豪地不停叫唤，

        “食米鸟，食米鸟，

        斯宾克，斯潘克，斯宾克，

        我可从来不怕人，

        无赖！流氓！有胆你就放马过来，

        唧，唧，唧。”





        5．干草上，六只白色的蛋，

        紫色的斑点，温润美丽，

        妈妈整天地孵坐窝里，

        父亲快乐地吐露心声，

        “食米鸟，食米鸟，

        斯宾克，斯潘克，斯宾克，

        尽职的母亲从不挪窝，

        我却在一边玩耍嬉戏，

        唧，唧，唧。”





        6．雏鸟们很快破壳而出，

        六只嗷嗷小嘴盼着食物，

        罗伯特 · 林肯抖擞精神，

        衔来草籽喂养待哺的宝贝，

        “食米鸟，食米鸟，

        斯宾克，斯潘克，斯宾克，

        新出世的雏鸟们，

        今后或许像我同样艰难辛苦，

        唧，唧，唧。”





        7．罗伯特 · 林肯变了模样，

        精心地照料孩子不再歌唱，

        它脱下假日漂亮的盛装，

        忘却快乐的和煦阳光，

        “食米鸟，食米鸟，

        斯宾克，斯潘克，斯宾克，

        除了我们夫妻俩，

        没人知道孵蛋的小窝搭在哪，

        唧，唧，唧。”





        8．夏天过去，雏鸟们已长大，

        不再只知道嬉戏玩耍，

        老伴变得干瘪无趣，

        罗伯特飞走时，歌谣依然在唱，

        “食米鸟，食米鸟，

        斯宾克，斯潘克，斯宾克，

        风笛吹响，古老迷人的曲调，

        罗伯特终于飞回来了，

        唧，唧，唧。”



        （威廉 · 卡伦 · 布莱恩特）





        LESSON 41





REBELLION IN MASSACHUSETTS STATE PRISON


        马萨诸塞州的监狱叛乱

        1. A more impressive exhibition of moral courage, opposed to the wildest ferocity under the most appalling circumstances, was never seen than that which was witnessed by the officers of our state prison; in the rebellion which occurred some years since.

        2. Three convicts had been sentenced, under the rules of the prison, to be whipped in the yard, and, by some effort of one of the other prisoners, a door had been opened at midday communicating with the great dining hall and, through the warden’s[1] lodge, with the street.

        3. The dining hall was long, dark, and damp, from its situation near the surface of the ground; and in this all the prisoners assembled, with clubs and such other tools as they could seize in passing through the workshops.

        4. Knives, hammers, and chisels, with every variety of such weapons, were in the hands of the ferocious spirits, who are drawn away from their encroachments[2] on society, forming a congregation of strength, vileness, and talent that can hardly be equaled on earth, even among the famed brigands[3] of Italy.

        5. Men of all ages and characters, guilty of every variety of infamous crime, dressed in the motley[4] and peculiar garb of the institution, and displaying the wild and demoniac[5] appearance that always pertains to imprisoned wretches, were gathered together for the single purpose of preventing the punishment which was to be inflicted on the morrow upon their comrades.

        6. The warden, the surgeon, and some other officers of the prison were there at the time, and were alarmed at the consequences likely to ensue from the conflict necessary to restore order. They huddled together, and could scarcely be said to consult, as the stoutest among them lost all presence of mind in overwhelming fear. The news rapidly spread through the town, and a subordinate[6] officer, of the most mild and kind disposition, hurried to the scene, and came calm and collected into the midst of the officers. The most equable-tempered and the mildest man in the government was in this hour of peril the firmest.

        7. He instantly dispatched a request to Major Wainright, commander of the marines[7] stationed at the Navy Yard, for assistance, and declared his purpose to enter into the hall and try the force of firm demeanor[8] and persuasion upon the enraged multitude.



              8. All his brethren exclaimed against an attempt so full of hazard, but in vain. They offered him arms, a sword and pistols, but he refused them, and said that he had no fear, and, in case of danger, arms would do him no service; and alone, with only a little rattan, which was his usual walking stick, he advanced into the hall to hold parley[9] with the selected, congregated, and enraged villains of the whole commonwealth.

        9. He demanded their purpose in thus coming together with arms, in violation of the prison laws. They replied that they were determined to obtain the remission[10] of the punishment of their three comrades. He said it was impossible; the rules of the prison must be obeyed, and they must submit.

        10. At the hint of submission they drew a little nearer together, prepared their weapons for service, and, as they were dimly seen in the further end of the hall by those who observed from the gratings that opened up to the day, a more appalling sight can not be conceived, nor one of more moral grandeur, than that of the single man standing within their grasp, and exposed to be torn limb from limb instantly if a word or look should add to the already intense excitement.

        11. That excitement, too, was of a most dangerous kind. It broke not forth in noise and imprecations[11], but was seen only in the dark looks and the strained nerves that showed a deep determination. The officer expostulated[12]. He reminded them of the hopelessness of escape; that the town was alarmed, and that the government of the prison would submit to nothing but unconditional surrender. He said that all those who would go quietly away should be forgiven for this offense; but that if every prisoner were killed in the contest, power enough would be obtained to enforce the regulations of the prison.

        12. They replied that they expected that some would be killed,—that death would be better than such imprisonment; and, with that look and tone which bespeak an indomitable[13] purpose, they declared that not a man should leave the hall alive till the flogging was remitted. At this period of the discussion their evil passions seemed to be more inflamed, and one or two offered to destroy the officer, who still stood firmer and with a more temperate pulse than did his friends, who saw from above, but could not avert, the danger that threatened him.

        13. Just at this moment, and in about fifteen minutes from the commencement of the tumult, the officer saw the feet of the marines, on whose presence alone he relied for succor, filing by the small upper lights. Without any apparent anxiety, he had repeatedly turned his attention to their approach; and now he knew that it was his only time to escape, before the conflict became, as was expected, one of the most dark and dreadful in the world.

        14. He stepped slowly backward, still urging them to depart before the officers were driven to use the last resort of firearms. When within three or four feet of the door, it was opened, and closed instantly again as he sprang through, and was thus unexpectedly restored to his friends.



              15. Major Wainright was requested to order his men to fire down upon the convicts through the little windows, first with powder and then with ball, till they were willing to retreat; but he took a wiser as well as a bolder course, relying upon the effect which firm determination would have upon men so critically situated. He ordered the door to be again opened, and marched in at the head of twenty or thirty men, who filed through the passage, and formed at the end of the hall opposite to the crowd of criminals huddled together at the other.

        16. He stated that he was empowered to quell the rebellion, that he wished to avoid shedding blood, but that he would not quit that hall alive till every convict had returned to his duty. They seemed balancing the strength of the two parties, and replied that some of them were ready to die, and only waited for an attack to see which was the more powerful; swearing that they would fight to the last, unless the punishment was remitted, for they would not submit to any such punishment in the prison. Major Wainright ordered his marines to load their pieces, and, that they might not be suspected of trifling, each man was made to hold up to view the bullet which he afterward put in his gun.

        17. This only caused a growl of determination, and no one blenched[14] or seemed disposed to shrink from the foremost exposure. They knew that their number would enable them to bear down and destroy the handful of marines after the first discharge, and before their pieces could be reloaded. Again they were ordered to retire; but they answered with more ferocity than ever. The marines were ordered to take their aim so as to be sure and kill as many as possible. Their guns were presented, but not a prisoner stirred, except to grasp more firmly his weapon.

        18. Still desirous to avoid such a tremendous slaughter as must have followed the discharge of a single gun, Major Wainright advanced a step or two, and spoke even more firmly than before, urging them to depart. Again, and while looking directly into the muzzles of the guns which they had seen loaded with ball, they declared their intention “to fight it out.” This intrepid[15] officer then took out his watch, and told his men to hold their pieces aimed at the convicts, but not to fire till they had orders; then, turning to the prisoners, he said: “You must leave this hall; I give you three minutes to decide; if at the end of that time a man remains, he shall be shot dead.”

        19. No situation of greater interest than this can be conceived. At one end of the hall, a fearful multitude of the most desperate and powerful men in existence, waiting for the assault; at the other, a little band of disciplined men, waiting with arms presented, and ready, upon the least motion or sign, to begin the carnage; and their tall and imposing commander, holding up his watch to count the lapse of three minutes, given as the reprieve[16] to the lives of hundreds. No poet or painter can conceive a spectacle of more dark and terrible sublimity; no human heart can conceive a situation of more appalling suspense.

        20. For two minutes not a person nor a muscle moved; not a sound was heard in the unwonted stillness of the prison, except the labored breathings of the infuriated wretches, as they began to pant between fear and revenge: at the expiration of two minutes, during which they had faced the ministers of death with unblenching eyes, two or three of those in the rear, and nearest the further entrance, went slowly out; a few more followed the example, dropping out quietly and deliberately: and before half of the last minute was gone, every man was struck by the panic, and crowded for an exit, and the hall was cleared, as if by magic.



              21. Thus the steady firmness of moral force and the strong effect of determination, acting deliberately, awed the most savage men, and suppressed a scene of carnage, which would have instantly followed the least precipitancy[17] or exertion of physical force.

        —J. T. Buckingham.





        “It may be that more lofty courage dwells

        In one weak heart which braves all adverse fate

        Than does in his whose soul indignant swells,

        Warmed by the fight, or cheered through high debate.”


【中文阅读】

        1.几年前，马萨诸塞州监狱发生叛乱，当监狱警官们目睹这场惨绝人寰的暴乱，奋起反抗这一闻所未闻的恐怖行为，他们临危不惧而表现出崇高的正义感与罕见的勇气令人钦佩、震撼。

        2.三个罪犯已被依法判决，依据监狱律令，还将在监狱院内接受鞭刑，由于其他一位囚徒的精心策划，中午，这一消息由通往囚犯大型餐厅的一间看守房悄悄传出，在餐厅内不胫而走，并传到监狱外面。

        3.囚犯餐厅极长，光线阴暗，空气潮湿，屋顶基本与监狱地面持平。餐厅为全体囚犯的集合之处，里面放有棍棒之类工具，方便囚犯们随手抓起，进入各自工作车间。

        4.现在，各种刀锤凿钻，所以可以用作武器的家什，都掌控在这些凶残的暴徒手中。这些罪犯因非法侵犯他人权利而与世隔绝；与此同时也形成暴力、邪恶及惊人才华的荟萃麇集，世界上几乎不存在可以与之抗衡的势力，甚而包括意大利最为凶残的黑帮。

        5.任何男囚，无论年龄身份，凡涉犯各类重罪，按规定一律穿戴统一杂色的狱服，以表现重罪囚犯野蛮与魔性的外貌特征及内心凶残。这些重罪囚犯被关押在一起的唯一理由，旨在避免次日早晨，有可能对同监狱其他人犯造成人身伤害。



        6.当时，监狱典狱长、医生以及部分警官都已赶到现场，他们因可能引发冲突而产生严重后果倍感警觉，并试图恢复常规秩序。囚犯们乱哄哄地拥挤成团，与警方谈判磋商几乎无法进行，由于极度恐惧，哪怕内心最坚强的人也会失去正常心智。监狱暴乱的消息迅速地传遍整个小镇，一位性情温和、宅心仁厚然而级别较低的警官闻讯后匆忙赶到现场，冷静自若地走进狱方警官们中间。面对一触即发的危险境地，他的神情最为坚毅。



              7.那位警官即刻向韦恩赖特海军少将发出求救，少将为驻扎附近海军基地陆战队的指挥官，然后向同僚们陈述他将走进餐厅的意图与目的，即以强势态度表现震慑力威严，并劝导说服愤怒的罪犯。

        8.他的同僚无不大呼小叫地阻止他实施任何冒险举动，然而无济于事。他们让他随身带上一把匕首和一支手枪，他仍然拒绝携带任何武器进去。他对同事们说，他毫不畏惧，即便真有危险，这些刀枪根本帮不上忙。于是，不过拿了那根平日他走路用的拐杖，然后独自一人走进大厅，与美国联邦恶贯满盈、最为暴虐以及怒火中烧的囚徒们开始谈判。

        9.他严正指出，囚犯们手拿武器的集聚行为，严重地违背了监狱法规，对方则回答，他们已下定决心，促使狱方赦免三位囚犯。他说，这点完全不可能，监狱法规必须服从，囚犯务必退让。

        10.在貌似顺从的暗示下，囚犯们开始聚拢过来，时刻准备抄家伙。通过餐厅远端那处天花光栅，外面监视的警官们影影绰绰看到下面囚犯的举动。那一令人恐怖的景象看来模糊不清，那种高尚感动的牺牲亦无从获悉细节，只能看见那位警官孤身站在一群穷凶极恶的匪徒中间，哪怕任何只言片语不合，或眼神不对路，不过瞬间工夫，他们就可一拥而上将他撕成碎片。

        11.最可怕的危机已经降临。这种危机并非以嘈杂或诅咒形式爆发，黑暗中感觉的不过是那些暴戾眼神与紧绷神经，以及罪犯们毫不退让的残忍果狠。那位警官有礼有节地训诫囚犯，暗示他们无法逃脱的结局；小镇此刻亦已获知监狱的消息，除了无条件投降，狱方管理方不会屈从囚犯提出的任何条件。他还说，所有退出暴乱的囚犯将会得到宽恕，随后不再追究，但如果有囚徒在冲突中死亡，监狱将获取更多警力支持，以强化监狱法规的执行。

        12.囚犯们回应说，他们已经料到这场冲突中势必有人伤亡，但死亡的结局兴许比囚禁监狱更好；那神色语调无不显示了暴徒们不达目的、绝不罢休的凶残。他们不依不饶地声称，除非免除三位囚犯的鞭刑，否则没有一个人会活着离开餐厅。谈判期间，囚犯们邪恶情绪似乎正加剧膨胀爆发，甚至有一两个罪犯提出先解决那位警官。那位警官，仍然神情坚毅地站在那里，比他的同事们更为冷静温和。上面的人目睹这一场景，对随时可能威胁其人身安全的危险行为，只能束手无策。



              13.就在那时，距骚乱发生大约十五分钟后，通过天花板上的微弱光亮，那位警官看到了海军陆战队员的身影，他清楚自己可以依赖的救助近在眼前。他不露声色，脸上未有丝毫焦虑之情，不过密切注意士兵们愈发逼近的脚步。此刻，他内心明白，这是冲突发生前可以逃脱的唯一良机，毫无疑问，正是世上最为可怕紧张的时刻。

        14.他慢慢地往后挪动，嘴里仍然不停地劝说囚犯们，告诉他们最好在陆战队员们最后不得不开火前离开。离门三四英尺时，门突然被打开，他飞身跑了出去，旋即门重新关上，出乎意料地，他重新回到了同僚们中间。

        15.韦恩赖特海军少将接到请求，请求下令手下陆战队员通过那些窄小窗口迅速向罪犯们开火，先用炸药，然后实弹射击，直到囚犯们愿意退却；少将却采取一种更为睿智大胆的方案，即依赖坚不可摧的攻心战使这些暴徒陷入危境。韦恩赖特少将命令再次打开餐厅大门，带领二三十名列队士兵率先冲了进去，然后在餐厅另侧，面对拥挤成团的暴徒呈“一”字形迅速排开。

        16.少将对囚犯们开始喊话，说他奉命前来平息叛乱，希望能够避免流血，但他不会放弃餐厅里所有生者，直至每个罪犯愿意重新履行自身职责。似乎衡量一番双方力量后，囚犯们最后回答，他们中已有人决心赴死，只有等到最后时刻，才能看出究竟哪一方更为强势。他们发誓要血战到最后一个人，除非狱方解除对犯人的惩罚，否则他们不会屈从任何类似刑罚。韦恩赖特少将命令陆战队员们子弹上膛，当然，他们手中的枪并非拨火棒。士兵们端起枪口严阵以待，同时看着少将将他的子弹最后推入枪膛。

        17.事与愿违，双方紧张对峙激起了更为顽强的反抗，黑压压的囚犯中没有任何人退却，面对生命危险，没有人流露任何畏惧的举动。他们内心清楚，就人数对比来看，暴徒们占有相当优势，因为第一轮枪支开火后，子弹未及再度上膛，他们可以一拥而上，消灭为数不多的士兵。囚犯们再次被要求后退，但他们恶狠狠的回答愈见嚣张。少将要求手下准确瞄准，以确保尽可能多地射杀对方。士兵们枪支各就各位，但暴徒人群中没有任何人心悸恐慌，只是紧紧攥住了手中武器。

        18.最后一丝希望犹存。如何避免大规模的血腥屠戮，哪怕一枪射发亦会使所有努力霎时灰飞烟灭。韦恩赖特少将往前跨了一两步，用比先前更为坚定的语气力劝囚犯离开。径直面对子弹已上膛的枪口，他们重申“以武力解决”的明确意图。那位勇敢的少将随即取出他的手表，吩咐士兵们举枪瞄准，听到命令后开火，然后转身朝着囚犯们说，“你们必须离开餐厅，我给你们三分钟时间决定，如果三分钟后还有人坚持不走，一律就地枪决。”



              19.已到千钧一发的危急关口。大厅两端，罪犯与强悍军人正僵持对峙。一大群恐怖至极的困兽犹斗等待攻击，一小群训练有素的军人，端着枪严阵以待，等待手势或行动指令迅即开始屠杀；他们高大勇猛、威风凛凛的指挥官举着表计算三分钟滴答，从而决定数百人的生杀予夺。没有笔墨可以描绘比这幕场景更为黑暗恐怖的生死凝重；没有人可以预知这种骇人听闻的惊险悬念。

        20.双方互相僵持，时针滴答接近两分钟，所有的人纹丝不动，甚至身上肌肉亦不曾抖动。除却愤怒凶残的沉重喘息，甚至听不到一根针落的声音。在恐惧与复仇纠结中，两分钟时间到了，暴徒们呼吸急促起来。刚才面对死神毫不退缩的眼神出现变化。人群队伍后面，临近门口地方，三两人慢慢地退到门外，接着又走了好几个。离开的人一声不吭、格外谨慎地退出。最后30秒过后，深陷恐慌的囚犯们潮水般挤向出口，整个大厅刹那间变得空空荡荡，仿佛奇迹发生。

        21.囿于道德力量的稳健，坚韧的心理强势，指挥的谨慎运作，才会使穷凶至恶者产生敬畏，从而抑制了一场血腥杀戮，因为哪怕丁点轻率鲁莽或物力冲突都会让所有努力前功尽弃。





        或许聚集更为崇高坚韧勇气，

        愤懑不平的内心难以匹敌，

        弱小心灵，面对噩运奋起抗争，

        因抗争暴力温暖，因辩争胜利欢欣。





        （J·T· 白金汉）





        LESSON 42





FAITHLESS NELLY GRAY


        无信仰的内莉·盖

        Thomas Hood (b. 1798, d. 1845) was the son of a London bookseller. After leaving school he undertook to learn the art of an engraver, but soon turned his attention to literature. In 1821 he became sub-editor of the “London Magazine.” Hood is best known as a humorist; but some of his poems are full of the tenderest pathos; and a gentle, humane spirit pervades even his lighter productions. He was poor, and during the last years of his life suffered much from ill health. Some of his most humorous pieces were written on a sick bed.





        1. Ben Battle was a soldier bold,

        And used to war’s alarms;

        But a cannon ball took off his legs,

         So he laid down his arms!





        2. Now, as they bore him off the field,

        Said he, “Let others shoot,

        For here I leave my second leg,

        And the Forty-second Foot!”





        3. The army surgeons made him limbs;

        Said he, “They’re only pegs:

        But there’s as wooden members quite,

        As represent my legs!”





        4. Now Ben, he loved a pretty maid,

        Her Name was Nelly Gray;

        So he went to pay her his devoirs[18],

        When he’d devoured his pay.





        5. But when he called on Nelly Gray,

        She made him quite a scoff[19];

        And when she saw his wooden legs,

        Began to take them off!





        6. “O Nelly Gray! O Nelly Gray!

        Is this your love so warm ’?



              The love that loves a scarlet coat

        Should be more uniform[20]!”





        7. Said she, “I loved a soldier once,

        For he was blithe[21] and brave;

        But I will never have a man

        With both legs in the grave!





        8. “Before you had these timber toes,

        Your love I did allow,

        But then, you know, you stand upon

        Another footing now!”





        9. “O false and fickle Nelly Gray!

        I know why you refuse:

        Though I’ve no feet—some other man

        Is standing in my shoes!





        10. “I wish I ne’er had seen your face;

        But, now, a long farewell!

        For you will be my death;—alas!

        You will not be my NELL!”





        11. Now when he went from Nelly Gray,

        His heart so heavy got,

        And life was such a burden grown,

        It made him take a knot!





        12. So round his melancholy neck,

        A rope he did entwine,

        And for the second time in life.

        Enlisted in the Line!





        13. One end he tied around a beam,

        And then removed his pegs,

        And, as his legs were off, of course

        He soon was off his legs.





        14. And there he hung till he was dead

        As any nail in town:

        For, though distress had cut him up,

        It could not cut him down!




【中文阅读】

        托马斯 · 胡德(1798～1845)，父亲为伦敦一位书商。学校毕业后，胡德学习雕刻艺术，很快将兴趣转向文学。1821年，他成为《伦敦杂志》的助理编辑。作为幽默家的托马斯 · 胡德广为人知，然而，他的诗作包含一种柔软的悲怆苦楚，以及温情四溢的人性升华，即使在他分量较轻的作品里亦不难发现。托马斯 · 胡德一生窘迫，尤其在生命最后岁月里饱经疾病折磨，他最为著名的一些幽默作品完成于病榻。





        1．本 · 巴特是位年轻士兵，

        冲锋在前，杀敌勇猛，

        炮火中，他失去了双腿，

        无奈中，只有退出战斗。





        2．战友们，将他撤离战场，

        他说，“好吧，让别人为我报仇，

        这块战场，我留下两条腿，

        总共四十二条腿，丢在这里了。”





        3．随军医生，为他做副假肢，

        他说，“这些可都是木头疙瘩，

        唉！看来只有这些玩意，

        才能代表，我这双假腿！”





        4．本爱上一位漂亮姑娘，

        她的名字，叫内莉 · 盖，

        他告诉女孩，对她的仰慕，

        没想到，却是自咽苦果。





        5．他急切前去，探望姑娘，

        她却嘲笑，他像个傻瓜，

        看见他那双木制假腿，

        一气之下，将它们扔掉！





              6．“哦，内莉 · 盖！内莉 · 盖！

        这，难道就是你温暖的爱？

        你追求，那种奢华虚荣，

        面对残疾士兵，你怎会动心？”





        7．她说，“我曾爱过帅气大兵，

        他开心快乐，也很勇敢，

        但我，不喜欢那样男人，

        这辈子，再也无法站起！





        8．“当时，你没有失去双腿，

        我确实，接受了你的爱情，

        如今，你也早该知道，

        你不过站在，木头上面。”





        9．“哦，虚情假意的内莉 · 盖！

        我知道，你为何拒绝我，

        虽然我不再有腿，但别人

        恰恰站在我的靴子上。”





        10．“但愿，别让我再看到你，

        从此分手，永远再见！

        你就是我的死神——天呀！

        绝不是，我钟爱的美女！”





        11．本 · 巴特离开内莉 · 盖，

        他心情沉重，郁郁寡欢，

        生活，变得不堪重负，

        他整天变得纠结不安。





        12．本 · 巴特日夜，悲哀难抑，

        一根绳索，竟缠过脖颈，



              短暂生命里，死亡象征，

        长长的名单，报名参军。





        13．他把绳索，甩过横梁，

        然后果断地移去假肢，

        一旦失去身体支撑，

        当然，亦就离开了木头假腿。





        14．他悬挂梁上，死了，

        小镇墙上，一枚刺破的记忆，

        虽然，厄运无情将他击倒，

        可完全不曾，将他碾碎。





        LESSON 43





THE GENEROUS RUSSIAN PEASANT


        慷慨的俄国农民

        1. Let Vergil[22] sing the praises of Augustus[23], genius celebrate merit, and flattery extol[24] the talents of the great. “The short and simple annals[25] of the poor” engross[26] my pen; and while I record the history of Flor Silin’s virtues, though I speak of a poor peasant, I shall describe a noble man. I ask no eloquence[27] to assist me in the task; modest worth rejects the aid of ornament to set it off.

        2. It is impossible, even at this distant period, to reflect without horror on the miseries of that year known in Lower Volga[28] by the name of the “Famine Year.” I remember the summer, whose scorching heats had dried up all the fields, and the drought[29] had no relief but from the tears of the ruined farmer.

        3. I remember the cold, comfortless autumn, and the despairing rustics, crowding round their empty barns, with folded arms and sorrowful countenances, pondering on their misery, instead of rejoicing, as usual, at the golden harvest. I remember the winter which succeeded, and I reflect with agony on the miseries it brought with it. Whole families left their homes to become beggars on the highway.

        4. At night the canopy of heaven served them as their only shelter from the piercing winds and bitter frost. To describe these scenes would be to harm the feelings of my readers; therefore, to my tale. In those days I lived on an estate[30] not far from Simbirsk[31]; and, though but a child, I have not forgotten the impression made on my mind by the general calamity.

        5. In a village adjoining lived Flor Silin, a poor, laboring peasant,—a man remarkable for his assiduity and the skill and judgment with which he cultivated his lands. He was blessed with abundant crops; and his means being larger than his wants, his granaries[32], even at this time, were full of corn. The dry year coming on had beggared all the village except himself. Here was an opportunity to grow rich. Mark how Flor Silin acted. Having called the poorest of his neighbors about him, he addressed them in the following manner:



              6. “My friends, you want corn for your subsistence[33]. God has blessed me with abundance. Assist in thrashing out a quantity, and each of you take what he wants for his family.” The peasants were amazed at this unexampled generosity; for sordid propensities[34] exist in the village as well as in the populous city.

        7. The fame of Flor Silin’s benevolence having reached other villages, the famished inhabitants presented themselves before him, and begged for corn. This good creature received them as brothers; and, while his store remained, afforded all relief. At length, his wife, seeing no end to the generosity of his noble spirit, reminded him how necessary it would be to think of their own wants, and hold his lavish hand before it was too late. “It is written in the Scripture,” said he, “Give, and it shall be given unto you.”

        8. The following year Providence listened to the prayers of the poor, and the harvest was abundant. The peasants who had been saved from starving by Flor Silin now gathered around him.

        9. “Behold,” said they, “the corn you lent us. You saved our wives and children. We should have been famished but for you; may God reward you; he only can; all we have to give is our corn and grateful thanks.” “I want no corn at present, my good neighbors,” said he; “my harvest has exceeded all my expectations; for the rest, thank heaven: I have been but an humble instrument.”

        10. They urged him in vain. “No,” said he, “I shall not accept your corn. If you have superfluities[35], share them among your poor neighbors, who, being unable to sow their fields last autumn, are still in want; let us assist them, my dear friends; the Almighty will bless us for it.” “Yes,” replied the grateful peasants, “our poor neighbors shall have this corn. They shall know it is to you that they owe this timely succor[36], and join to teach their children the debt of gratitude due to your benevolent heart.” Silin raised his tearful eyes to heaven. An angel might have envied him his feelings.

        —Nikolai Karamzin.


【中文阅读】

        1．让 · 维吉尔唱响献给奥古斯都的赞歌，历史上天才睿者颂扬罗马大帝的圣明与伟绩。《贫民简略编年史》一书，耗费我大量的写作时间，包括叙述具有无私美德的菲洛 · 斯林一生，这位慷慨好施、品质高尚的人只是俄罗斯一位穷苦农民。我无需用花哨雄辩的语言维系自己写作，唯有内心谦卑，摒弃辞藻华美，才能径入主题。

        2．即使年代沧桑久远，回想起来，我的内心恐惧依然挥之不去，总会联想那本题为《饥馑记年》一书中描述的当年纪实。我还记得灾难发生的那个夏天，炙热烧焦舔干田野里所有庄稼，干旱未见丝毫减轻，绝望无助的农民眼里只有泪水。



        3．那年秋天，天气寒冷难挨。饥饿的乡民聚集在自家空空的谷仓周围，他们束手无策，脸上满是悲哀迷惘，村庄不再像往年那样，庆贺秋天丰收季节的来临。我还清楚记得那个接踵而至的冬天，空中弥漫一股濒死气息，无数家庭背井离乡外出乞讨。





              4．夜晚，饥民们只能在野外露天安歇栖身，尽管天寒地冻，北风刺骨，那是他们歇宿的唯一选择。就我书中记录来看，描述那些悲哀场面可能会伤害读者的情感。当年饿殍遍野，我居住的地方离辛比尔斯克不远，尽管我那时尚且年幼，那场饿殍遍野的恐怖印象仍然记忆犹新。

        5．菲洛·斯林，一个整日操劳的俄罗斯贫苦农民，住在我家附近的一个村庄。他依靠自己的勤勉辛苦，丰富准确的农作经验，精心地操持土地。幸运的是，即使那年灾年，他的地里庄稼亦收获不少，因居家耗费有限，他家的谷仓堆满了粮食。旱灾饥馑迫使全村老少不得不外出乞讨，维持生计，唯独他家例外，此时不失为暴富的最佳时机。那么，菲洛·斯林如何面对？他召集最为窘困的左邻右坊，向他们开诚布公地说出自己想法。

        6．“乡亲们，你们眼下需要粮食才能活下去，上帝保佑我今年收成不错，我家谷仓里堆满了粮食。你们每人都可领取全家生活必需的口粮。”在场农民无不大为惊愕，大家从未遇到如此慷慨的急公好义之人，因为，当时利欲熏心的罪恶不仅在乡村风靡盛行，人口众多的城镇亦到处充满狡诈欺骗。

        7．菲洛·斯林仁慈好施的赈灾一事传到其他村庄，饥民们纷纷来到他家，乞求周济粮食。好心的菲洛把灾民看成自己的兄弟姐妹，将余存粮食毫不吝惜地分给饥民。后来他的妻子眼见丈夫慷慨无休无止，只得提醒他还要考虑自家口粮。妻子的提醒总算不是太迟，他却坦然说道：“这句话写在《圣经》上。”即“你们要给人，就必有给你们的。”

        8．第二年，上帝听到了穷人的祷告，田里庄稼收成丰足。那些得到菲洛 · 斯林救助幸免于难的农民们，再次聚集到他家门口。

        9.“斯林先生，你看看，”他们说，“你送给我们粮食，救了我们的妻小。若不是你的仁爱之心，我们早已成为路边饿殍；但愿上帝报答你，只有上帝才能做到，我们回报你的只是粮食和真心感谢。”“好心的乡邻们，我现在根本不需要粮食，”菲洛说，“我的收成超过了最好期待，至于我所做的，感谢天上圣父，我不过是个卑微的践行者。”



        10．他们反复劝说菲洛，终究还是徒劳。“乡亲们，别这样，”菲洛说，“我不会接受你们的粮食。如果你们手中粮食富余，不如将粮食送给更为贫苦的乡邻。去年秋天，不少人无法播种，他们眼下仍需要粮食，我们为何不向他们伸出救援之手？朋友们，天主为此佑福我们。”“好吧。”心怀感激的村民们异口同声地说。“那些穷人需要帮助，他们肯定亦会知道，拯救之道在于众人援手，由于你们的仁爱之心，他们将教育后代学会如何感恩。”菲洛说着，仰望天空，眼眶泪水充盈，或许，快乐的天使正欣羡地注视着他。





        （尼可莱 · 卡拉姆津）





        LESSON 44





FORTY YEARS AGO


        四十年前

         1. I’ve wandered to the village, Tom,

         I’ve sat beneath the tree,

         Upon the schoolhouse playground,

         That sheltered you and me;

         But none were left to greet me, Tom,

         And few were left to know,

         Who played with me upon the green,

         Just forty years ago.





         2. The grass was just as green, Tom,

         Barefooted boys at play

         Were sporting, just as we did then,

         With spirits just as gay.

         But the master sleeps upon the hill,

         Which, coated o’er with snow,





               Afforded us a sliding place,

         Some forty years ago.





         3. The old schoolhouse is altered some;

         The benches are replaced

         By new ones very like the same

         Our jackknives had defaced.

         But the same old bricks are in the wall,

         The bell swings to and fro;

         Its music’s just the same, dear Tom,

         ’T was forty years ago.





         4. The spring that bubbled ’neath the hill,

         Close by the spreading beech,

         Is very low; ’t was once so high

         That we could almost reach;

         And kneeling down to take a drink,

         Dear Tom, I started so,

         To think how very much I’ve changed

         Since forty years ago.





         5. Near by that spring, upon an elm,

         You know, I cut your name,

         Your sweetheart’s just beneath it, Tom;

         And you did mine the same.

         Some heartless wretch has peeled the bark;

         ’T was dying sure, but slow,

         Just as that one whose name you cut

         Died forty years ago.





         6. My lids have long been dry, Tom,

         But tears came in my eyes:

         I thought of her I loved so well,

         Those early broken ties.

         I visited the old churchyard,

         And took some flowers to strew

         Upon the graves of those we loved

         Just forty years ago.





         7. Some are in the churchyard laid,

         Some sleep beneath the sea;

         And none are left of our old class

         Excepting you and me.

         And when our time shall come, Tom,

         And we are called to go,

         I hope we’ll meet with those we loved

         Some forty years ago.




【中文阅读】

        1．汤姆，我在村里徘徊，

        在那棵树底坐下，

        当年你我遮阴的地方，

        紧挨着校园操场。

        汤姆，没有故人前来问候，

        几乎无人知道，

        谁和我，在草地上玩耍，

        四十年前，往事历历在目。





        2．汤姆，草地翠绿一如往昔，

        孩子们赤脚地追逐游戏，

        与当年我们同样神气，

        兴高采烈，笑声清澈无比。

        老师在山上睡觉，

        坡上覆满了雪，他为学生，

        准备好滑雪玩耍之地，

        大约四十年前，久远记忆。





        3．破旧的校舍，变化不大，

        从前桌凳，都已置换，

        新的旧的，看来相差无几，

        我们口袋小刀，刻坏不少桌椅。

        陈年老砖，斑驳写在墙上，

        校园晨钟，还在风中摇晃，

        铃声叮当，仍然清脆无比，

        汤姆呵，四十年光阴摇碎。





        4．山下有处泉水，汩汩冒泡，

        紧挨泉眼，有片山毛榉林，

        现在山很矮，过去高不可攀，



              爬到顶，总是很难很难。

        我趴在泉边，啜饮山泉，

        汤姆，我在琢磨思忖，

        我的模样，究竟改变多少？

        时光穿梭，一晃四十年了。





        5．泉眼旁边，有棵棕榈树，

        你知道，我刻下你的名字，

        你心上人名字，镌刻下面，

        嘿嘿，居然与我暗恋一致。

        哪个坏家伙，剥去树皮，

        苟延残喘的树，慢慢死去，

        宛如，树干上清秀的姑娘，

        四十年前，远离你我而去。





        6．汤姆，我闯荡多年波澜不惊，

        此刻，涕泗横流难掩悲伤，

        当年，我爱得如痴如狂，

        一阵风，竟不知身在何方。

        我走进那间颓圮教堂，

        将带来的鲜花，轻轻放下，

        放在，我们爱过的坟茔前，

        往事四十载，心痛神殇。





        7．有的人，长眠教堂院内，

        有的人，永远躺在海底；

        班上同学，除却你我，

        如今相聚已是，阴阳相隔。

        汤姆，你我上路的日子快了，

        似乎有人，在远方呼唤，

        但愿，与爱恋的人重逢相依，

        共同翻动，人生如寄的篇章。





        LESSON 45





MRS. CAUDLE’S LECTURE


        高德夫人的演讲

        Douglas Jerrold (b. 1803, d. 1857) was born in London. A midshipman’s appointment was obtained for him, but he quit the naval service in a few years. He was then apprenticed to a printer. By improving his leisure hours he made himself master of several languages, and formed the habit of expressing his thoughts in writing An essay on the opera of Der Freischutz was his first published literary production. Before he was twenty-one years of age, he wrote “Black-eyed Susan,” one of the most popular dramas of modern times. Several other popular plays followed this. He was a regular contributor to the London “Punch,” from the second number, and edited, at different times, several papers and magazines. As a humorist, he occupies the first rank. The most noted of his works are his plays, and “Mrs Caudle’s Curtain Lectures,” “Saint Giles and Saint James,” “Bubbles of a Day,” and “Chronicles of Clovernook.”





        1. Well, Mr. Caudle, I hope you’re in a little better temper than you were this morning. There, you need n’t begin to whistle: people don’t come to bed to whistle. But it’s like you; I can’t speak that you don’t try to insult me. Once, I used to say you were the best creature living: now, you get quite a fiend. Do let you rest? No, I won’t let you rest. It’s the only time I have to talk to you, and you shall hear me. I’m put upon all day long: it’s very hard if I can’t speak a word at night; besides, it is n’t often I open my mouth, goodness knows!

        2. Because once in your lifetime your shirt wanted a button, you must almost swear the roof off the house. You did n’t swear? Ha, Mr. Caudle! you don’t know what you do when you’re in a passion. You were not in a passion, wer’n’t you? Well, then, I don’t know what a passion is; and I think I ought by this time. I’ve lived long enough with you, Mr. Caudle, to know that.

        3. It’s a pity you hav’n’t something worse to complain of than a button off your shirt. If you’d some wives, you would, I know. I’m sure I’m never without a needle and thread in my hand; what with you and the children, I’m made a perfect slave of. And what’s my thanks? Why, if once in your life a button’s off your shirt—what do you cry “oh” at? I say once, Mr. Caudle; or twice, or three times, at most. I’m sure, Caudle, no man’s buttons in the world are better looked after than yours. I only wish I’d kept the shirts you had when you were first married! I should like to know where were your buttons then?

        4. Yes, it is worth talking of! But that’s how you always try to put me down. You fly into a rage, and then if I only try to speak, you won’t hear me. That’s how you men always will have all the talk to yourselves: a poor woman is n’t allowed to get a word in. A nice notion you have of a wife, to suppose she’s nothing to think of but her husband’s buttons. A pretty notion, indeed, you have of marriage. Ha! if poor women only knew what they had to go through!—what with buttons, and one thing and another,—they’d never tie themselves up,—no, not to the best man in the world, I’m sure. What would they do, Mr. Caudle?—Why, do much better without you, I’m certain.



              5. And it’s my belief, after all, that the button was n’t off the shirt; it’s my belief that you pulled it off that you might have something to talk about. Oh, you’re aggravating[37] enough, when you like, for anything! All I know is, it’s very odd that the button should be off the shirt; for I’m sure no woman’s a greater slave to her husband’s buttons than I am. I only say it’s very odd.

        6. However, there’s one comfort; it can’t last long. I’m worn to death with your temper, and sha’n’t trouble you a great while. Ha! you may laugh! And I dare say you would laugh! I’ve no doubt of it! That’s your love; that’s your feeling! I know that I’m sinking[38] every day, though I say nothing about it. And when I’m gone we shall see how your second wife will look after your buttons! You’ll find out the difference then. Yes, Caudle, you’ll think of me then; for then, I hope, you’ll never have a blessed button to your back.

        7. No, I’m not a vindictive[39] woman, Mr. Caudle: nobody ever called me that but you. What do you say? Nobody ever knew so much of me? That’s nothing at all to do with it. Ha! I would n’t have your aggravating temper, Caudle, for mines of gold. It’s a good thing I’m not as worrying as you are, or a nice house there’d be between us. I only wish you’d had a wife that would have talked to you! Then you’d have known the difference. But you impose upon me because, like a poor fool, I say nothing. I should be ashamed of myself, Caudle.

        8. And a pretty example you set as a father! You’ll make your boys as bad as yourself. Talking as you did all breakfast time about your buttons! and of a Sunday morning, too! And you call yourself a Christian! I should like to know what your boys will say of you when they grow up! And all about a paltry[40] button off one of your wristbands! A decent man would n’t have mentioned it. Why don’t I hold my tongue? Because I won’t hold my tongue. I’m to have my peace of mind destroyed—I ’m to be worried into my grave for a miserable shirt button, and I’m to hold my tongue! Oh!but that’s just like you men!

        9. But I know what I’ll do for the future. Every button you have may drop off, and I won’t so much as put a thread to ’em. And I should like to know what you’ll do then! Oh, you must get somebody else to sew ’em, must you? That’s a pretty threat for a husband to hold out to his wife! And to such a wife as I’ve been, too, such a slave to your buttons, as I may say. Somebody else to sew ‘em’! No, Caudle, no; not while I’m alive! When I’m dead—and, with what I have to bear, there’s no knowing how soon that may be—when I ’m dead, I say—oh! what a brute you must be to snore so!

        10. You’re not snoring? Ha! that’s what you always say; but that’s nothing to do with it. You must get somebody else to sew ’em, must you? Ha! I should n’t wonder. Oh, no! I should be surprised at nothing now! Nothing at all! It’s what people have always told me it would come to; and now the buttons have opened my eyes! But the whole world shall know of your cruelty, Mr. Caudle. After the wife I’ve been to you. Caudle, you’ve a heart like a hearthstone, you have!



                              [1]Warden, a keeper, one who guards,



                      [2]Encroachment, unlawful intrusion on the rights of others.



                      [3]Brigands, robbers, those who live by plunder.



                      [4]Motley, composed of various colors.



                      [5]Demoniac, devil-like.



                      [6]Subordinate, inferior in power.



                      [7]Marines, soldiers that serve on board of ships.



                      [8]Demeanor, behavior, deportment.



                      [9]Parley, conversation or conference with an enemy.



                      [10]Remission, pardon of transgression.



                      [11]Imprecations, curses, prayers for evil.



                      [12]Expostulated, reasoned earnestly.



                      [13]Indomitable, that can not be subdued or tamed.



                      [14]Blenched. gave way, shrunk.



                      [15]Intrepid, fearless.



                      [16]Reprieve, a delay of punishment.



                      [17]Precipitancy, headlong hurry.



                      [18]Devoirs, respects: compliments.



                      [19]Scoff, an object of ridicule.



                      [20]Uniform (adj.), consistent, (noun) military dress.



                      [21]Blithe, merry, gay.



                      [22]Vergil, was the greatest of Roman poets, born in the year 70 B.C., and died 19 B.C.



                      [23]Augustus, Caesar was emperor of Rome in the latter portion of Vergil’s life, and received many compliments in the verses of his friend the poet.



                      [24]Extol, to elevate by praise.



                      [25]Annals, history of events.



                      [26]Engross, to occupy wholly.



                      [27]Eloquence, the power of speaking well.



                      [28]Lower Volga is a district in eastern Russia, bordering on the Caspian Sea, and takes its name from the river Volga.



                      [29]Drought, want of rain or water.



                      [30]Estate, property in land.



                      [31]Simbirsk, is a town of eastern Russia, on the Volga.



                      [32]Granary, a storehouse far grain.



                      [33]Subsistence, means of support.



                      [34]Propensities, bent of mind, inclination.



                      [35]Superfluities, greater quantities than are wanted.



                      [36]Succor, aid, help.



                      [37]Aggravating, provoking, irritating.



                      [38]Sinking, failing in strength.



                      [39]Vindictive, revengeful.



                      [40]Paltry, mean, contemptible.





【中文阅读】

        道格拉斯 · 杰罗尔德（1803～1857）出生于英国伦敦，曾担任海军见习船员，数年后从海军退役，然后改行从事印刷。他利用闲暇苦读后熟练掌握了数门语言，并学会利用写作表达思想。《歌剧<魔弹射手>评论》为他首篇发表的文学作品。21岁之前，杰罗尔德已经写出《黑眼睛的苏珊》，该剧为现代最为流行的戏剧之一，此后又接连推出数部流行剧作。从第二期开始，他依据不同年代、数家报纸与杂志内容，定期为伦敦《英国木偶剧》编撰供稿。作为公认一流的幽默剧作家，他的戏剧作品堪称一流，包括《高德夫人的舞台剧演讲》、《圣徒吉尔和圣徒詹姆》、《一天的气泡》以及《克洛弗努克编年史》。





        1.好了，高德先生，但愿你现在脾气比今早要好点。呃，你不必立马吹口哨，别人可不会“嘘”“嘘”地吹着上床。不过，像你这样的人，我还真不能说，是不是存心想侮辱我？我以前总是说，你是这世上最好的人，可现在的你，简直是个恶魔。让你睡觉？不！我不会让你睡的，我不得不和你打开窗户说亮话，只此一回。听我说！我为你忙乎一整天，晚上还不能和你说上一句话，天呀！这真让人没法活了，再说，我不过偶尔才叨唠两句，老天知道！

        2.你这一辈子，哪怕衬衫掉个小小纽扣，你都能诅咒得沸反盈天。什么，你没有诅咒？高德先生！火冒三丈的时候，你真不知道你做过什么。什么？你没有火冒三丈,是吗？得了，我可不知道火冒三丈是什么意思；我现在当然懂了，高德先生，和你生活一起够长的，我心里再明白不过。

        3.你可真够不幸的，再没有什么倒霉事能比过你那衬衫上掉个小小纽扣，你埋怨不停。假如你有几个老婆，你的牢骚也不会少，这点，我当然清楚。我知道，我的手上从来不缺针少线，可以应付你还有那些孩子们。我成了你随意喝斥的奴隶，你感谢过我吗？为什么只要你衬衫纽扣掉了，你就要对我“哎”地叫上一声， 高德先生，我说过一次，高德先生，两次、三次，甚至无数次。我明白，高德先生，这世上没有任何男人衬衫纽扣得到这样隆重关注。我真的巴望还留着你第一次结婚的衬衫，我太想知道了，那会你的纽扣究竟在哪？

        4.没错，太该念叨念叨！不过，你怎么总是让我失望？只要我刚想开口，你就大发雷霆，你根本不会听我的。你们这些男人，就是喜欢大老爷们围在一起胡侃乱吹，倒霉的女人不许插一句话。一个老婆等于一个好点子，你也不想想，难道除去整天盯着老公纽扣，你老婆什么都不懂？一旦你结了婚，总会给你琢磨出好点子。嘁！如果那些倒霉女人只知逆来顺受，只瞅那些纽扣，那些七扯八拉的家庭琐事，她们才不会把自己和世上那些并不咋样的男人栓到一根绳上，没错，不会的。女人还能做什么？高德先生，天呀！没有你们这些男人，女人只会做得太好，这点，绝对错不了。



              5.不管怎么说，这是我的心思，纽扣当时没有掉；兴许你把纽扣拽掉了，说明你或许有话要说，这还是我的心思。噢，只要你不待见，你总是怒火中烧！没一件事不这样！所有我知道的，就是纽扣竟然从衣服上掉了，这可真奇怪了。我觉得，没有哪位妇女对她丈夫卑躬屈膝能比过我，只能说，这事太离谱。

        6.不过，倒还有件让你舒心的事，这种场面不会继续了，我烦透了你的坏脾气，难道不该聒噪聒噪你？嘁！你可以笑！我敢说，你一定捂不拢嘴地笑！没说的！我说到你心坎里了，那正对你的心思。我知道，我每天受尽折磨，但我真的无话可说。我离开后，我们等着看你的第二任老婆怎样打理你的纽扣！这样，你才会清楚前后差异。是的，高德，那时你才会想起我，但愿那时，你身上不会有一粒幸福纽扣。

        7.不！我可不是心怀怨恨的女人，高德先生，除了你，没有人这样说我。你说什么？没有人对我了解这么多？了解与评价这里没有任何关系。嘁！我不会有你那暴跳如雷的脾气，高德，我脾气实在太温顺了，这点倒不错，我不会像你那样忧心忡忡，或许我们能有套好房子。我当时一心指望你有个老婆，与你耳鬓厮磨！你本该清楚我们之间差异，但你却欺骗我，将我看成可怜的傻子，因为我毫无怨言，高德，我真是羞愧死了。

        8.作为父亲，你的模范示范可真不赖！你让儿子们像你一样举止恶劣。每天早餐时间，学着你喋喋不休地大谈你的纽扣！甚至周日上午也不例外。你还竟然标榜自己为基督徒！我真想知道，孩子们成人后将如何议论你！所有话题没一样离开鸡毛蒜皮，包括你哪只袖口掉只纽扣啦，举止优雅的绅士从来不屑谈这些鸡零狗碎。为什么我不住嘴？因为我不想住嘴！我就是想毁掉平和心态——我就是想哪怕为一只倒霉纽扣也恨不得愁得钻进坟墓。那么，就彻底闭嘴了！天呀！那才和你们这些男人一个鬼样！

        9.可是，我知道得为自己将来打算。你身上每粒纽扣可能都会掉落，我可不会那么心甘情愿地穿针弄线随时伺候，我还很乐意知道接下来你要做什么。噢，你一定要找其他女人给你缝，是不是？那可是老公甩给老婆的杀手锏。像我这样老婆当然一样，不妨这样说，我不过是对付你纽扣的奴隶罢，会有其他女人给你缝的， 不，高德，不，只要我还活着，就不会有！如果我死了呢？——还需要忍受什么？没人知道还有多久——一旦快死了，我会说——天呀！你简直是个只会打呼噜的畜生！



        10.你没有打呼噜？嘁！你总这样说，但所有一切全都无所谓了。你肯定还要找其他女人过日子，是吗？嘁！我不该大惊小怪。天呀！绝不！现在我对发生任何事情都不会吃惊。一点儿不会！如同别人总是告诉我那样，该来的，一定会来；纽扣才让我看清这些！其实，所有应该了解的就是你的残忍，高德先生，和你结婚后，高德，你简直就是铁石心肠。一点儿没错！





        LESSON 46





THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH


        乡村铁匠

         1. Under a spreading chestnut tree

         The village smithy stands;

         The smith, a mighty man is he,

         With large and sinewy hands;

         And the muscles of his brawny arms

         Are strong as iron bands.





         2. His hair is crisp, and black, and long,

         His face is like the tan;

         His brow is wet with honest sweat,

         He earns whate’er he can,

         And looks the whole world in the face,

         For he owes not any man.





         3. Week in, week out, from morn till night,

         You can hear his bellows blow;

         You can hear him swing his heavy sledge,

         With measured beat and slow,

         Like a sexton ringing the village bell,

         When the evening sun is low.





         4. And children coming home from school

         Look in at the open door;

         They love to see the flaming forge,

         And hear the bellows roar,

         And catch the burning sparks that fly

         Like chaff from a threshing floor.





         5. He goes on Sunday to the church,

         And sits among his boys;

         He hears the parson pray and preach,

         He hears his daughter’s voice

         Singing in the village choir,

         And it makes his heart rejoice.

         6. It sounds to him like her mother’s voice



               Singing in Paradise!

         He needs must think of her once more,

         How in the grave she lies;

         And with his hard, rough hand he wipes

         A tear out of his eyes.





         7. Toiling, rejoicing, sorrowing,

         Onward through life he goes;

         Each morning sees some task begin,

         Each evening sees its close;

         Something attempted, something done,

         Has earned a night’s repose.





         8. Thanks, thanks to thee, my worthy friend,

         For the lesson thou hast taught!

         Thus at the flaming forge of life

         Our fortunes must be wrought;

         Thus on its sounding anvil shaped

         Each burning deed and thought!





        —Longfellow


【中文阅读】

        1．树冠伸展的栗树下，

        坐落着一间铁匠铺，

        身材健壮的铁匠，

        宽厚有力的双手，

        褐色臂膀的肌肉，

        坚实得好像铁杵。





        2．他头发蜷曲又黑又长，

        长有一副棕褐色脸膛，

        眉尖上滴落辛勤的汗水，

        无需仰人鼻息锻造自强。

        他腁手砥足养家糊口，

        神情坚毅，活在这个世上。





              3．从早到晚，筋疲力尽，

        呐喊，吼叫，力抵万金，

        他身影晃动，铁锤哐当，

        那声声敲打，缓慢沉重，

        宛如教堂钟声，回响在

        夜幕将至的血色夕阳。





        4．孩子们放学回家路上，

        走过门前高大栗树，朝里张望，

        他们喜欢看烧红的锻铁，

        火苗呼啸，吼声震天，

        迸发出道道星光四溅，

        像打谷上麸糠落在田边。





        5．周日，他去教堂做礼拜，

        坐在自己孩子们中央，

        聆听牧师庄严的祈祷，

        捕捉女儿的欢欣歌唱，

        在乡村合唱团弥撒声里，

        他的心无比欢畅。





        6．好像是母亲的声音，

        在伊甸园里轻轻吟唱。

        他肯定又想起了母亲，

        如何竟孤单躺进坟场，

        那双硬实粗糙的大手，

        擦拭不尽的眼泪流淌。





        7．劳累欢乐，悲哀惆怅，

        穿梭在，岁月绵延的长廊，

        晨曦中，开始新的艰苦劳作，

        夜幕里，他以锤声夯落收场。



              内心充足，打好每块锻铁，

        岁月安好，飘进每晚心灵之窗。





        8．衷心感谢，我的朋友，

        感谢你生动的一课，

        生活，要经历无数次淬火；

        命运，需扭曲锻造重撞。

        那訇然滚动的铁砧上，才能

        升华起炽热行为，还有思想。





        （朗费罗）





        LESSON 47





THE RELIEF OF LUCKNOW


        勒克瑙救援

        [From a letter to the “London Times,” by a lady, the wife of an officer at Lucknow.]





        1. On every side death stared us in the face; no human skill could avert[1] it any longer. We saw the moment approach when we must bid farewell to earth, yet without feeling that unutterable horror which must have been experienced by the unhappy victims at Cawnpore. We were resolved rather to die than to yield, and were fully persuaded that in twenty-four hours all would be over. The engineer[2] had said so, and all knew the worst. We women strove to encourage each other, and to perform the light duties which had been assigned to us, such as conveying orders to the batteries, and supplying the men with provisions, especially cups of coffee, which we prepared day and night.

        2. I had gone out to try to make myself useful, in company with Jessie Brown, the wife of a corporal in my husband’s regiment. Poor Jessie had been in a state of restless excitement all through the siege[3], and had fallen away visibly within the last few days. A constant fever consumed her, and her mind wandered occasionally, especially that day, when the recollections of home seemed powerfully present to her. At last, overcome with fatigue, she lay down on the ground, wrapped up in her plaid. I sat beside her, promising to awaken her when, as she said, her “father should return from the plowing.”

        3. She fell at length into a profound[4] slumber, motionless and apparently breathless, her head resting in my lap. I myself could no longer resist the inclination to sleep, in spite of the continual roar of the cannon. Suddenly I was aroused by a wild, unearthly scream close to my ear; my companion stood upright beside me, her arms raised, and her head bent forward in the attitude of listening.

        4. A look of intense delight broke over her countenance; she grasped my hand, drew me toward her, and exclaimed: “Dinna ye hear it? dinna ye hear it? Ay. I’m no dreaming: it’s the slogan[5] o’ the Highlanders! We’re saved! we’re saved!” Then flinging herself on her knees, she thanked God with passionate fervor[6]. I felt utterly bewildered; my English ears heard only the roar of artillery, and I thought my poor Jessie was still raving; but she darted to the batteries, and I heard her cry incessantly to the men, “Courage! courage! Hark to the slogan—to the Macgregor, the grandest of them a’! Here’s help at last!”

        5. To describe the effect of these words upon the soldiers would be impossible. For a moment they ceased firing, and every soul listened with intense anxiety. Gradually, however, there arose a murmur of bitter disappointment, and the wailing of the women, who had flocked to the spot, burst out anew as the colonel shook his head. Our dull Lowland ears heard only the battle of the musketry. A few moments more of this deathlike suspense, of this agonizing hope, and Jessie, who had again sunk on the ground, sprang to her feet, and cried in a voice so clear and piercing that it was heard along the whole line, “Will ye no believe it noo? The slogan has ceased, indeed, but the Campbells are comin’! D’ ye hear? d’ ye hear?”



              6. At that moment all seemed indeed to hear the voice of God in the distance, when the pibroch[7] of the Highlanders brought us tidings of deliverance; for now there was no longer any doubt of the fact. That shrill, penetrating, ceaseless sound, which rose above all other sounds, could come neither from the advance of the enemy nor from the work of the sappers[8]. No, it was indeed the blast of the Scottish bagpipes, now shrill and harsh, as threatening vengeance on the foe, then in softer tones, seeming to promise succor to their friends in need.

        7. Never, surely, was there such a scene as that which followed. Not a heart in the residency[9] of Lucknow but bowed itself before God. All, by one simultaneous[10] impulse, fell upon their knees, and nothing was heard but bursting sobs and the murmured voice of prayer. Then all arose, and there rang out from a thousand lips a great shout of joy, which resounded far and wide, and lent new vigor to that blessed pibroch.

        8. To our cheer of “God save the Queen,” they replied by the well-known strain that moves every Scot to tears, “Should auld acquaintance be forgot.” After that, nothing else made any impression on me. I scarcely remember what followed. Jessie was presented to the general on his entrance into the fort, and at the officers’ banquet her health was drunk by all present, while the pipers marched around the table playing once more the familiar air of “Auld Lang Syne.”


【中文阅读】

        （本文来自勒克瑙一位官员妻子写给《伦敦时报》的一封信）

        1.死亡四处紧紧地盯着我们，再也没有任何路可以幸免逃脱。当我们看到死亡的脚步一步步走近，意识到与这个世界最后告别的时刻即将来临；伴随内心无以言传的巨大恐惧，相必坎布尔不幸的罹难者肯定也经历类似濒死体验；我们打定主意，即便受难赴死也不会屈服，甚至完全相信，不过区区24小时之内，一切终将尘埃落定，那位随军工程师也是这么说的。大家都很清楚，我们已经深陷最为难捱的黑暗。女人们彼此拼命鼓劲，完成分配给我们那些较轻的活儿，比如给那些街垒炮手送送消息，或给男人们发些生活补给；咖啡尤其必不可少，为此，我们从早到晚忙碌不停。

        2.我走出家门，看自己能否帮上什么忙，还要去陪伴杰西·布朗，我丈夫那个团里一位下士的妻子。可怜的杰西从围城开始，一直焦躁不安，不过几天时间，她明显地消瘦了，还一直在发烧，时而精神恍惚；尤其那天她似乎失去自控，真的好像回到了家乡；后来因疲劳过度躺卧地上，身上裹着一条格子呢毛毯。我坐在她的身边，指望能够唤醒她，她突然开口说道：“爸爸该从地里回来了。”





              3.后来，她陷入深睡，一动不动，好像没了气息，她的头还搭在我的膝盖上；我自己也感到难以克制的昏昏欲睡，尽管周围炮声隆隆。猛然，一声发狂怪异的尖叫刺入我的耳膜，杰西·布朗竟笔直地站起，立在我的身边，她的双臂高举，头部往前弯曲，好像在倾听什么。

        4.她的脸上突然现出难以克制的兴奋，紧紧抓住我的手，把我往她身边拖拽，一边尖声高叫：“迪娜，听见吗？你听见吗？喂，我绝不是在做梦，这是苏格兰高地人的广播！我们得救了！我们得救了！”说时迟，那时快，她扑通跪倒在地，感谢上帝的仁慈，情绪那么亢奋激昂。 此刻，我手足无措地站在旁边，我那听惯英语的耳朵，耳边只有炮声的滚滚轰鸣。我原以为可怜的杰西还在胡言乱语，她蓦然飞一般冲到街垒边，对那些荷枪实弹的男人们大声喊道：“加油！勇敢些！你们听到广播吗？那是麦格雷戈的声音，他是最棒的！我们的救兵终于来了！”

        5.实在无法叙述这些雷人话语对周围士兵的影响，士兵们顷刻间停止了射击，每一个人都在焦虑万分地聆听。然而，痛苦失望中，一片片窃窃私语渐次响起，夹杂女人们的恸哭哀号；她们刚才兴奋地聚拢过来，此刻却再度大放悲声。站在一边的上校军官摇了摇头，耳朵不甚敏感的我们，听见的不过是持续的枪炮声。折磨人的死样寂静不过片刻，杰西复又颓然倒地，四肢摊开，锐利的尖叫刺破天空，在整条街道回响，“你们难道没人相信?真的，广播停了，坎贝尔人打过来了，听见吗？你们真的听见了吗？”

        6.刹那间，所有人仿佛真的听到了远处上帝的声音。苏格兰高地人的风笛给我们带来了拯救的信息，此刻，这点已毋庸置疑。那个战栗尖利的声音不断响着，淹没了其他所有的声音。那个声音并非来自敌人的进攻，也不是来自我方人员的工事壕沟。没错，那愈发颤栗刺耳的苏格兰风笛在风中炸响，似乎宣泄着对敌人复仇的呐喊，随后略微柔和的曲调弥漫开来，宛如表达拯救患难朋友的迫切渴望。

        7.眼前未曾出现的一幕就这样发生了。一个人跪下了，然后，所有人齐刷刷地跪倒在地。勒克瑙使馆区无人不感激涕零地臣服上帝的力量，嚎啕大哭、低声呜咽或是喃喃细语的祷告裹杂成片。接着大家站了起来，上千人震耳欲隆的欢呼声在四面八方久久回荡，为快乐的风笛注入了崭新活力。

        8.为回应“上帝拯救女王”的众人欢腾，士兵们奏响了那首极负盛名的名曲——《友谊地久天长》，在场的每一个苏格兰人热泪盈眶。接下来的事情似乎淡忘了，我实在记不清后面发生了什么。杰西被隆重地介绍给走进要塞的将军；在官方举办的宴会上，所有在场的人为她的健康干杯。与此同时，乐手们围绕餐桌队列行进，《友谊地久天长》再一次在风中嘹亮奏响。





        LESSON 48





THE SNOWSTORM


        暴风雪

        James Thomson (b. 1700, d.1748) was born at Ednam, in the shire of Roxburgh, Scotland. He was educated at the University of Edinburgh, and afterwards studied for the ministry, but in a short time changed his plans and devoted himself to literature. His early poems are quite insignificant, but “The Seasons,” from which the following selection is taken; and the “Castle of Indolence,” are masterpieces of English poetry.





        1. Through the hushed air the whitening shower descends,

        At first thin wavering; till at last the flakes

        Fall broad and wide and fast, dimming the day,

        With a continual flow. The cherished fields

        Put on their winter robe of purest white.

        ’T is brightness all: save where the new snow melts

        Along the mazy[11] current.





        2. Low the woods

        Bow their hoar[12] head; and ere the languid sun

        Faint from the west emits[13] its evening ray,

        Earth’s universal face, deep-hid and chill,

        Is one wild dazzling waste, that buries wide

        The works of man.





        3. Drooping, the laborer ox

        Stands covered o’er with snow, and then demands

        The fruit of all his toil. The fowls of heaven,

        Tamed by the cruel season, crowd around

        The winnowing[14] store, and claim the little boon[15]

        Which Providence assigns them.





        4. One alone,

        The Redbreast, sacred to the household gods,

        Wisely regardful of the embroiling[16] sky,



              In joyless fields and thorny thickets leaves

        His shivering mates, and pays to trusted man

        His annual visit.





        5. Half-afraid, he first

        Against the window beats; then, brisk, alights

        On the warm hearth; then, hopping o’er the floor,

        Eyes all the smiling family askance[17],

        And pecks, and starts, and wonders where he is;

        Till, more familiar grown, the table crumbs

        Attract his slender feet.





        6. The foodless wilds[18]

        Pour forth their brown inhabitants. The hare,

        Though timorous of heart, and hard beset[19]

        By death in various forms, dark snares and dogs,

        And more unpitying men, the garden seeks,

        Urged on by fearless want. The bleating kind.

        Eye the bleak heaven, and next the glistening earth,

        With looks of dumb despair; then, sad dispersed,

        Dig for the withered herb through heaps of snow





        7. Now, shepherds, to your helpless charge be kind,

        Baffle the raging year, and fill their pens

        With food at will; lodge them below the storm,

        And watch them strict; for from the bellowing east,

        In this dire[20] season, oft the whirlwind’s wing

        Sweeps up the burden of whole wintry plains

        In one wide waft[21], and o’er the hapless flocks,

        Hid in the hollow of two neighboring hills,

        The billowy tempest 'whelms[22]; till, upward urged,

        The valley to a shining mountain swells,

        Tipped with a wreath high-curling in the sky .


【中文阅读】

        詹姆斯 · 汤姆森(1700～1748)，出生于苏格兰罗克斯堡郡埃德纳姆。他在爱丁堡大学学习，后来学习神学，但很快投身文学。他早期诗歌影响不大，但他的《懒散的城堡》，以及下列段落节选的《季节》皆为英国诗歌名篇。





              1. 万籁俱寂，飘落迷蒙的漫天碎雪，

        霓裳起舞，化作羽毛的柔软凋零，

        山川广袤，刹那间天地卷入晦暗，

        扬扬纷纷，笼罩了村庄河流两岸。

        银装素裹，眺望一望无际的凝重，

        暮色渐褪，悄声融化的白雪皑皑，

        龙走蜿蜒，流水淙淙中欣然上路。





        2. 谦卑树木，风雪中低下白头，

        西陲夕阳，惨淡望萧瑟寒冬，

        光华不再，大地苍茫月色起，

        风寒料峭，江河隐退寂寥收。

        缤纷凌乱，飞雪狂舞遮不住，

        天地一色，生机无限绰影留。





        3. 低首徘徊，砥足耕作的老牛，

        落雪满身，巴望主人的草料，

        天寒地冻，繁重活计下煎熬；

        群鸟麇集，黑压压蜂拥飞来，

        粮仓屋前，饥饿难耐地寻找，

        麸皮翻飞，悲悯众生的回报。





        4. 孤独踟蹰， 象征家神的知更鸟，

        极度敏感， 隆冬里恶劣天气，

        万木肃杀， 田野里到处荒芜，

        北风刺骨， 穿过灌丛的长啸，

        鸟儿嘶鸣， 嗷嗷待哺的哀号，

        好心人呐， 数九寒天来喂鸟。





        5. 鸟儿轻轻，叩击灯火的窗棂，

        飞到灶台，敏捷轻盈地落地，

        跳跃桌上，啄食那面包残屑，



              风雪弥漫，难见的盛宴佳肴。

        全家目光，惊异这不速之客，

        可爱乖巧，来自何方的生灵。





        6. 寒冬腊月， 饥馁动物们纷纷逃窜，

        猎犬狂吠， 冰雪荒原上四面陷阱，

        胆怯野兔， 难逃黑暗死亡的包抄；

        处心竭虑， 血腥残忍的追踪猎手，

        大开杀戒， 利欲熏心地杀戮围剿。

        悲哀羊群， 满山积雪明晃晃耀眼，

        神色绝望， 仰望天空上乌云环绕，

        咩咩长叹， 雪地下刨开枯枝败草。





        7. 那牧羊人，疼爱你的牛羊吧，

        苛刻主人，无视严寒的肆虐，

        冰天雪地，围栏里草料稀少；

        可怜畜群，暴雪中无以遮挡，

        狂风咆哮，遽然盘旋过田野，

        卷走多少，惊恐不已的嘶叫；

        洪水淹没，相邻山间的洞穴，

        汹涌冲进，牛羊栖息的岩角，

        沟谷崩塌，山脊处雷鸣电闪，

        高空激流，一簇花环盘山绕，

        万物刍狗，何以见悲悯之道？





        LESSON 49





BEHIND TIME


        迟 到

        1. A railroad train was rushing along at almost lightning speed. A curve was just ahead, beyond which was a station where two trains usually met. The conductor was late,—so late that the period during which the up train was to wait had nearly elapsed; but he hoped yet to pass the curve safely. Suddenly a locomotive dashed into sight right ahead. In an instant there was a collision[23]. A shriek, a shock, and fifty souls were in eternity; and all because an engineer had been behind time.

        2. A great battle was going on. Column after column had been precipitated[24] for eight hours on the enemy posted along the ridge of a hill. The summer sun was sinking in the west; reenforcements[25] for the obstinate defenders were already in sight; it was necessary to carry the position with one final charge, or everything would be lost.

        3. A powerful corps[26] had been summoned from across the country, and if it came up in season all would yet be well. The great conqueror, confident in its arrival, formed his reserve[27] into an attacking column, and ordered them to charge the enemy. The whole world knows the result. Grouchy failed to appear; the imperial guard was beaten back; and Waterloo was lost. Napoleon died a prisoner at St. Helena because one of his marshals was behind time.

        4. A leading firm in commercial circles had long struggled against bankruptcy[28]. As it had large sums of money in California, it expected remittances[29] by a certain day, and if they arrived, its credit, its honor, and its future prosperity would be preserved. But week after week elapsed without bringing the gold. At last came the fatal day on which the firm had bills maturing[30] to large amounts. The steamer was telegraphed at daybreak; but it was found, on inquiry, that she brought no funds, and the house failed. The next arrival brought nearly half a million to the insolvents, but it was too late; they were ruined because their agent, in remitting, had been behind time.

        5. A condemned man was led, out for execution. He had taken human life, but under circumstances of the greatest provocation[31], and public sympathy was active in his behalf. Thousands had signed petitions for a reprieve; a favorable answer had been expected the night before, and though it had not come, even the sheriff felt confident that it would yet arrive. Thus the morning passed without the appearance of the messenger.



              6. The last moment was up. The prisoner took his place, the cap was drawn over his eyes, the bolt was drawn, and a lifeless body swung revolving in the wind. Just at that moment a horseman came into sight, galloping down hill, his steed covered with foam. He carried a packet in his right hand, which he waved frantically to the crowd. He was the express rider with the reprieve; but he came too late. A comparatively innocent man had died an ignominious[32] death because a watch had been five minutes too late, making its bearer arrive behind time.

        7. It is continually so in life. The best laid plans, the most important affairs, the fortunes of individuals, the weal[33] of nations, honor, happiness, life itself, are daily sacrificed, because somebody is “behind time.” There are men who always fail in whatever they undertake, simply because they are “behind time.” There are others who put off reformation year after year, till death seizes them, and they perish unrepentant, because forever “behind time.”


【中文阅读】

        1.火车近乎闪电般飞奔疾驰，前方有一处拐弯，拐弯过去通常是两列火车交汇站台。下行车晚点了，按调度常规安排，上行车等待的时间即将结束，但司机仍然希望能安全闯过那道弯口。一辆机车突然径直冲了过来，霎时间两车发生碰撞。尖叫震惊中，五十条生命瞬间消失，所有这些，不过由于一位司乘人员的迟到而酿成的人间悲剧。

        2.一场伟大的战役战事正酣，一列列军队连续进攻沿山脊守护的敌军，战斗持续长达八小时之久。夏日骄阳快要落山了，顽强的防御部队后备增援队伍已进入视野，发动最后一次进攻事不宜迟，否则，整个战役只能前功尽弃。

        3.全国紧急传令召集一支精锐兵团，如果部队能按时抵达，战事局面将大为改观。那位不朽的征服者，对自己麾下部队能投入战斗信心百倍，于是他将最后后备队亦悉数投入进攻，下令向敌军开火。整个世界对最终结果一目了然，格鲁希元帅未能按时抵达，帝国卫队被彻底击败，滑铁卢丢失，拿破仑死在圣·赫勒拿监狱，战争失利由于那位元帅的迟到。

        4.长期以来，商业圈里某家主要公司反对美国破产法。当时，这家公司有大量资金在加利福尼亚，原本指望在某一指定日子向外汇款，若款项按时汇出，它的信用名誉以及它未来发展机遇无疑将得以保障。但是，一个又一个星期过去了，这笔款项仍未支付。最后，至为关键的日子眼看到来，这家公司数额很大的几张汇票即将到期。黎明时分，一份加急电报发给游轮，但经过咨询发现，游轮并未携带现金，所以款项未能及时支付；游轮再次抵达时将差不多五十万资金付予资不抵债者，但，所有一切太迟了，这家证券交易所彻底破产了，因为他们的代理商未能及时汇款。



              5.一位死刑犯即将被执行死刑，考虑到在被动激怒情况下，他才犯下人命，所以，公众对他给予相当同情，数千人联名签名请愿对他实施缓期死刑，上峰死缓回复有待在死刑执行前一天晚上送达。尽管批复未到，连执行司法官亦相信，缓刑已毋庸置疑。第二天早晨，批复仍未到达。

        6.执行死刑的最后时刻终于来临，囚犯站到了预定位置，头上帽子被拉下遮住他的眼，闩门掉落，尸体在风中不停地旋转。就在那时，人们看到一位骑马人飞奔冲下山坡，马儿越跑越近，马嘴边吐着白沫。那骑马人右手拿着包，发狂地朝人群挥舞，他正是携带缓刑命令的快件骑手。但他来得太迟了，一位相对无辜的人被可耻地结束了生命，由于那位快件骑手的表慢了五分钟，他最终错过一条生命的宝贵。

        7.生活中此类事例并不乏见。最佳设定计划，重大或关键事件，个人命运、民族繁荣、荣誉、幸福乃至生活本身，由于某些人“迟到或晚点”皆成为庸常岁月的牺牲品。这些人，无论他们从事何种工作，失败总是与之形影不离，唯一原因不过在于他们“迟到或晚点”。还有一种人的失败原因在于：他们总是年复一年地推迟改变，直到死神将他们彻底带进坟墓。这种人推崇食古不化，因此，“迟到或晚点”对他们来说，意味永远终生错过。





        LESSON 50


